snipers solve 99% of all problems
Posted originally on the Archive of Our Own at http://archiveofourown.org/works/20644262.
Rating: Mature
Archive Warning: No Archive Warnings Apply
Category: Gen
Fandoms: Fullmetal Alchemist - All Media Types, Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling
Characters: Edward Elric, Alphonse Elric, Mei Chan | May Chang, Riza Hawkeye,
Roy Mustang, Albus Dumbledore, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, Harry
Potter, Hermione Granger, Remus Lupin, Maes Hughes, Sirius Black,
Dudley Dursley, Ron Weasley, Ginny Weasley, Jean Havoc, The
Dursleys, Amelia Bones, Bill Weasley, Kreacher (Harry Potter),
Aberforth Dumbledore
Additional Tags: Crossover, Humor, Post-FMA Canon, Harry Potter 5th Year, Nobody’s
Going To Hogwarts, Me sprinting down the highway while snorting coke
off my hand, i just need to get this out of my system, Oh yeah Maes
Hughes lives bc i said so, Ed: what the fuck do you mean you have
ELVES and SLAVERY, also ed: lol ya i joined the military when i was
12, Voldemort is the one percent, Dementors, If you're a science person
come correct me, do not repost to another site, The Edward Elric Mortal
Combat School of Trauma Therapy, Ed Says Fuck, Ed Says Fuck 600+
Times, Fake/Pretend Relationship
Language: English
Stats: Published: 2019-09-15 Updated: 2024-09-07 Words: 262,839 Chapters:
88/?
snipers solve 99% of all problems
by silentwalrus
Summary
Ed had thought, after the whole Promised Day, homunculus, entire country harvested for
alchemical batteries thing, the batshit quotient of his life would have settled down some. He
really ought to have topped out the meter with that one. But no. The bullshit is just getting
started.
“Are you fucking kidding me,” Ed demands. “The wizards?”
Podfic & Chinese translation available! See notes
Notes
i thought simultaneously too hard about this and not enough. don’t ask me how any shit lines
up i don’t care. i am fulfilling a very specific kink of mine and it’s called worlds collide
nonsense and imaginary systems technobabble.
WAIT, WHY DOES ED HAVE HIS ARM AND ALSO HIS ALCHEMY? WHAT CANON
ARE YOU USING?
listen, ive never heard of a canon in my life. if this were a serious story, we would take
narrative consequences blah blah moral blah blah sacrifice seriously. This, however, is not a
serious story. I’m throwing ed elric at wizards. what more could you want.
See the end of the work for more notes
Translation into 中文-普通话 國語 available: 论狙击手的重要性（snipers solve 99% of all
problems） by LandBelowTheWind
Chapter 1
Ed had thought, after the whole Promised Day, homunculus, entire country harvested for
alchemical batteries thing, the batshit quotient of his life would have settled down some. He
really ought to have topped out the meter with that one. But no. The bullshit is just getting
started.
“Are you fucking kidding me,” Ed demands. “The wizards?”
Mustang sighs. “Yes. The wizards.”
“But they’re all loonies over there!”
“Nonetheless, we have been asked to resolve the situation.”
“Why us?”
“Do you want to be the one to explain to General Armstrong why her dear childhood friend
from summer camp abroad isn’t getting help with her terrorist problem?”
“Why the fuck isn’t she the one here, then! You telling me the Ice Queen can’t handle some
terrorists?”
“These terrorists use soul bonds, Fullmetal, so forgive us all for calling in an expert.”
“You just want her to owe you a favor,” Ed growls.
Mustang’s mouth ticks up just a hair. “You’re getting better at this, Fullmetal. Though
primarily what I want is to not be disemboweled and left to be savaged by rabid bears while
dear Olivier laughs and watches.”
“I’d buy tickets to that,” Ed mutters. “What the fuck is this about soul bonds?”
Mustang’s face loses some of the amusement. “The briefing so far has been… less than
satisfactory on most details,” he says, pushing a folder across the desk. “But from what I
understand, their number one most wanted raised himself from the dead.”
Ed snatches up the folder. “Raised from the dead?” The briefing is way less than satisfactory:
there’s practically nothing here, just four pages of notes about location (wizard loony land,
who cares), a pathetically scant threat estimate (whoever did that analysis is clearly just as
pleased to have next to no details to offer as Ed is to get them) and one page is just a
handwritten letter on weird beige paper. Ed frowns at it and holds it up. “Fuck is this?”
“General Armstrong’s friend - one Amelia Bones - is the director of law enforcement for their
government, and she is the one who requested help. She is not, however, reaching out in her
official capacity but rather as,” Mustang’s mouth purses eloquently, “a member of a vigilante
group of private citizens.”
“What.”
“Because their government is insisting that the terrorists don’t exist.”
Ed squinches his face up. Governments cover up wild shit all the time, obviously, but
terrorism tends to be co-opted and used as propaganda fodder, not denied. “Do they exist?”
“General Armstrong certainly thinks so.” Mustang sighs. “There’s a translation attached.”
Ed flips the letter over and finds it, immediately recognizing Hughes’ handwriting. “Hughes
speaks wizard?” he asks, scanning the page. Hate to ask this of you… no other help...
“English,” Mustang corrects. “No, he recorded Olivier’s verbal translation. If anyone else in
the military speaks English we’re not aware of them.”
Ed flips through the measly handful of pages again and eyes the Intelligence seal on
everything except the letter. “How official is this?”
Mustang shrugs. “We’re Security. General Armstrong has brought us evidence of alchemical
terrorism that has the potential to become a national security threat -”
“Wizards have alchemy?”
Mustang sighs. “No, Fullmetal,” he says in his do keep up voice. “But nobody’s going to take
a report with the word ‘magic’ in it seriously.”
Ed waves a hand. “So we’re on the up and up but only as far as it takes to paper over the
bullshit.”
“And as you said, it can be very valuable to have General Armstrong owe you a favor,”
Mustang says. “After this I’m not going to be the only one with an IOU.”
“With me doing the entire military’s dirty work, as usual,” Ed says in comfortable disgust.
“When do I leave?”
“We will be heading out the day after tomorrow,” Mustang says. “Once we receive the
Imperial travel documents securing passage through Xing. I’d suggest you wire Alphonse
and let him know we’ll be passing through the capital.”
Ed’s so distracted by Al! Yay! that he almost doesn’t see the catch. Almost. “We?”
Mustang smiles. “Why yes. It’s official military policy to send no man alone when traveling
across the Divide. Hawkeye and Havoc will accompany us to the gateway in Guangshi, and I
will be joining you to rendezvous with our contacts and determine whether we’ll need to
apply any more… resources.”
“Oh, you’ve got to be fucking kidding me,” Ed says.
-o-
The contact rendezvous is at someone’s literal fucking house. Getting there is a fucking
nightmare, because first it’s three days’ train ride across the desert - thank fuck for the new
rail lines - and then another three days upriver in Xing, and then another day in a boat along
the coast. They’re not alone, at least: Al and Mei join them when the river passes through the
imperial capital because neither of them have been to Guangshi.
Ed’s never been to a port city before either, Amestris being landlocked, and Mustang must be
feeling slightly less bastardly than usual because they take an entire day to “rest up” for their
“big trip” after they check in with the local magistrate to reassure his Imperial Lingness that
they’ve arrived where they’re supposed to and haven’t hared off to do god knows what to his
country. Ed, Al and Mei spend the entire day walking the shore and investigating the dock
markets, eating fried octopus and lime-soaked clams and buying sea pearl earrings (for
Winry), thirteen books on tidal basin ecology, ocean navigation, deep-sea predators and
water-specific alkahestry (for Ed and Al), and brightly colored cloth wind pennants shaped
like fish (for everyone. “Souvenirs!” Al had insisted. “They’ll make a nice gift no matter who
it’s for.”)
“So,” Al says after they’ve dropped off their crap in the hotel room and gotten back to
chewing on fried shrimp on an open pier by the market. “Wizards.”
“Wizarffs,” Ed agrees, kinda muffled by his mouthful of shellfish.
Mei makes a face. “Is it true they keep themselves segregated out there? Alkahestrists living
in secret apart from everybody else?”
Ed shrugs, yanking the tails off another skewer of shrimp so as to more efficiently load them
into his calorie hole. “No idea. The intel we’ve got on anything over there is a fucking joke.
Only thing we know for sure is their ‘magic’ is basically just impermanent alchemy, so
nothing they make is actually stable.”
“I think only General Armstrong’s been across, that we know of,” Al tells Mei. “Her family
is really old and they have distant relatives living out there, but I haven’t heard of anybody
else crossing over. You’ll be meeting a guide, right, brother?”
“Yeah, think so,” Ed says, chewing. “Mustan’s doin’ all the ‘rranging. ‘Pparently crossing the
anomaly is supposed to really suck.”
Al gives him a sharp look of you’re telling me this little fact NOW? “Will your automail be
alright?”
“I don’t think it’s that bad,” Mei says. “There’s people who trade with them here. And we
saw people selling those translation rocks at that alkahestric bookstore, remember?”
“That shit is unnatural,” Ed declares, telling Al I’ll be fine with his eyebrows because these
days Mustang kicks up way the fuck more of a fuss about environmental hazards to his
automail than he does. “There’s nothing that should be able to translate language that can be
applied to a rock. A small rock.”
“At least you don’t have to learn a whole new language just for this assignment,” Al says, but
he also looks displeased by linguistically impossible rocks. All three of them had looked
them over and all three of them had been totally at a loss as to how the fucking things
worked, not least because they only translated to and from languages from either side of the
anomaly. They shouldn’t.
“I know there’s some alkahestrists down the coast that have studied the Divide, but all the
research we have in the capital is mostly about mapping it,” Mei says doubtfully. “Which is,
well. It’s mostly over the ocean.”
“And there’s really not much data beyond measurements,” Al sighs. “The most interesting
thing was that radio waves can’t pass through - which, well, there could be any number of
reasons for that. And we have practically nothing on their culture.”
“I haven’t heard of any people from there crossing over to this side,” Mei says, tugging on
her braids and frowning. “There are some accounts from Xingese travelers, but I haven’t read
them.”
“We’ve got practically nothing in Central,” Ed admits, because he’d spent the day before
departure rooting through all the wizard books in the library (zero point two, nothing but four
paragraphs in some old traveling Cretan cartographer’s journal) and hunting down the two
Intelligence analysts who’d compiled the briefing (who had burst into simultaneous tears of
commiseration when Ed had complained about having jack shit - jeez, Hughes hires them
highly strung).
Additionally, the letter had been super unclear about the whole soul bonds thing -
Armstrong’s friend claims her Lord Wal de whatever came back from the dead through ‘dark
soul magic’, but with literally no evidence Ed’s pretty firmly on the side of ‘this guy just
fucking hid out building his power base for ten years and then told everybody he resurrected
himself to seem scary’. Also, who names a terrorist group death eaters? Ed hmphs. "Our best
intel is from twenty fucking years ago, from what Armstrong remembers crossing over as a
kid to go to fucking summer camp. With wizards.”
Al taps reprovingly at Ed’s metal leg with his cane. “They’re people just like us, brother. And
they’re asking for help.”
“We’re gonna help,” Ed complains. “Just - wizards!”
“This is our chance to learn more than rumors,” Al points out. “And if a whole society of
people decided to follow their own branch of alchemy, impermanent or not, then maybe
there’s something to it that we haven’t thought of. They could have some really interesting
insights. They’ve got to at least have libraries,” he adds, only a little uncertain.
“If their stupid terrorists haven’t blown them up yet,” Ed says, but he can’t put any venom
into it when Al, as usual, is extremely fucking right. This is why they send Al to do
diplomacy and Ed to beat people insensate with their own inadequacy. “Fine. After I’m done
there I’ll ditch Mustang if I have to and get us some books.”
“Bring me back some too!” Mei demands.
“Obviously,” Ed says, not least because these days Al and Mei were sharing textbooks or
whatever it is the university kids were calling it these days. Ed, like with all things that make
Al happy, wholeheartedly approves while also lurking in the background holding a very big
hammer.
Mei looks pleased, at least. “Let’s go talk to the market administrator and ask who’s gone
across recently,” she says. “Maybe we can talk to someone who’s been.”
Al beams at Mei like someone’s handed him a kitten. “That’s a great idea!”
So yeah, Ed approves.
The administrator in the main market does know of three merchants who have traveled across
the anomaly, but regrets to inform the imperial princess that two are in caravan to Yangluo
and one is currently on business across the anomaly itself. He personally does not have much
information, beyond that what the merchants bring back is mostly artwork, cloth and fresh
translation stones, as they don’t last more than a month without their mystery batteries going
dead or whatever.
“It’s fine,” Ed says when they reconvene outside the administration office. “Not like I won’t
find out soon enough. Let’s go get some of those steamed buns we saw by the fish market, I
wanna get my money’s worth outta this day. Probably don’t even have buns in wizard world,”
he mutters, slinging his arm over Al’s shoulders and steering them back down the street.
They get the buns, and they’re delicious, and they end up spending the rest of the afternoon
in one of the alkahestric bookstores stacking up even more books to take home (cardiac
diagnostics, Al, multi-application array design, Mei, energy conservation in transmutation,
Ed.) In the evening practically every street gets lit up with elaborate paper lamp strings, and it
turns out there’s a night market, too, so by the time they return to their rooms Ed’s almost
forgotten that he’s here to go see fucking wizards and solve their stupid magic terrorist
problem.
At least Mustang doesn’t make them get up early. They traipse out to the gateway close to
noon, which is on the outskirts of the city and up one of the jungle-covered hills that make up
the entirety of the coast minus like two meters of beach. The gateway itself is marked by two
carved posts covered in imperial lions: it looks like a freaky wobbling stretch of grey air, but
the two guards on one side of it are literally sitting and smoking and playing pai, so clearly
this shit is only alarming to dumb foreigners. Mustang presents their papers to the little
customs booth a few meters from the gate, they get nodded through by a bored official, and
Hawkeye and Havoc salute Mustang while Ed gives Al and Mei a tight hug.
“Keep a journal,” Al instructs, then amends, at Ed’s disbelieving look, “If you have time. But
think, brother, we could get a research paper out of this,” and Ed has to hug Al again for that.
His little brother always knows just what to say, even if it is in service of manipulating Ed
into taking notes.
“We’ll be back before you know it,” Ed says, and strides into the wobbly air. Like hell is he
gonna let Mustang go first.

Chapter 2
Crossing through does, actually, suck saggy goat balls. Ed feels like every molecule of his
body is trying to fit into its neighbor as a crushing, airless squeeze grips his lungs and makes
him feel like every hair follicle is being smushed out of each individual pore like a billion
micro tubes of toothpaste. But it is not, actually, anything near like being dragged through the
Gate, so Ed grits what he currently hopes are his teeth and shoves through.
He falls out the other side with a pop, with only a slight stagger and a manageable heave to
his stomach. A discreet check of his automail proves his leg is perfectly fine - barring any
horrible delayed-reaction surprises - and then Mustang pops out too, grimacing but otherwise
looking annoyingly unruffled.
The opposite side of the anomaly is still coastal jungle - water lapping at the slope down Ed’s
right, chittering dark green rising up to his left - only now instead of midday it’s fucking
nighttime. It’s also significantly more humid, and as Ed completes his 360 a hulking figure
steps out of the trees.
Ed braces automatically, on edge after his skip through the fucking anomaly, but the guy
stops well away from them. He’s a real fucked up looking dude, with absolutely insane hair, a
peg leg and a bulging mechanical eye that moves independently of the natural one. He’d look
like a character from a children’s play about pirates only he’s wearing a poncho. He’s holding
some kind of thin stick in his hand - and his eye goes right to Ed’s automail leg, which makes
Ed tense and open his hands in preparation to clap.
The guy doesn’t do anything, though, just flicks his freaky eye up to Ed’s face and then
Mustang’s. “Mustang?” he grunts, his accent making it sound like Mosstang.
Mustang holds up a translation stone. “You are…?”
“Moody,” the guy says, in a way that makes Ed have to chew his cheek to keep from adding
well in that case I’m Sarcastic and he’s Insufferable. He must be the right contact, at least,
because Mustang doesn’t fry him. “Who’s the boy?”
“This is Lieutenant Colonel Elric,” Mustang says, putting a hand on Ed’s shoulder as Ed
bristles further. “He’s a specialist on my team. Are we waiting for anyone else?”
“No,” pirate guy says harshly, apparently hearing the hurry up and get us moving just as
clearly as Ed did. He gives them another gross once-over before turning around. “This way.”
He stumps along the shore and further into the trees, moving awkwardly but quickly on his
peg leg. Ed has a superior moment with his own automail, his stride indistinguishable on
either side these days thanks to Winry’s experiments with titanium, and wonders vaguely why
this guy didn’t buy a leg from whoever made that fucking eye.
Which can clearly see through clothes. Ed levels a belatedly disgusted look at Pirate Guy’s
back. Peeping fucking tom.
“How’d you lose the leg, boy?” Pirate Guy says loudly, like a fucking mind reader.
“In a poker game,” Ed says flatly. “Your eyes go below my waist again, I’m fucking decking
you. Fair warning.” If the guy can see through clothes, is he a mind reader? Ed immediately
starts running through the most complicated problem he knows - alchemically induced
atomic fission in uranium-14, purely theoretical until he and that girl from Central U figure
out a stable containment system for both base material and byproduct - and that carries him to
the top of the hill and into a small clearing. Man, if the guy is a mind reader Ed really hopes
Mustang’s thinking about nothing but porn.
Their destination is a moldering shed that looks like it’s ended up at the wrong end of a
couple dozen bear attacks. Pirate Guy rummages around in there and comes out holding what
looks, to Ed’s expert eye, like a fucking flowerpot.
“This is a port key,” Pirate Guy tells them, dead serious. “When all three of us touch it it’ll
take us to base.”
Ed squints at the flowerpot, because on a second look he could swear there’s almost a
shimmer in the air right at its edges. He reaches out with his right hand and definitely feels a
hint of tingle right before Mustang puts his hand down too and everything goes fucking
apeshit.
It’s like god flushed him down the toilet. “Holy shitting fuck,” Ed half-yells, nearly pitching
forward as he’s abruptly spat out of the universal sewage flue again. At least the anomaly
crossing didn’t nutshot him with fucking concentrated essence of motion sickness.
They are now in - a city. A residential area by the look of it, with weird bulbous cars parked
all along the street. It’s still night here, but now instead of being too warm Ed’s jacket is
gonna need a little help with the wind insulation. Mustang’s staggering slightly next to him,
which makes him feel better, but Pirate Guy looks like he’s trying not to smirk, which makes
Ed vow revenge.
“Here,” Pirate Guy says, digging in his poncho for something. Ed would watch him just in
case, but Mustang’s already keeping an eye on it and anyway something on their right is
almost vibrating in the corner of Ed’s vision. He turns towards it, squinting to get a better
look, and gets a lot more shimmers this time. The air in front of the row houses ripples with
some kind of distortion, visible even though the only light is from some shuttered windows
and a couple of distant streetlights.
Ed squints harder, blinking rapidly to try and get a clearer look. He can’t fucking imagine
what the hell it’d be: it doesn’t actually look anything like the anomaly did, but he can’t think
of what would make atmospheric distortion like this besides magic. Mei taught Al about qi
and both of them tried to teach Ed, but so far he’s had jack all success in sensing the mystic
currents or whatever. Maybe this is what they were talking about. Maybe it’s on the visible
spectrum on this side of the anomaly and presents as weird air shimmers. Ed kind of wishes
he has a camera to record whether or not this is real or just all the concussions finally
catching up to him.
Pirate Guy finally digs out whatever he was looking for before Ed can go over there and start
poking things. “Read this,” he says, thrusting a scrap of paper at Mustang.
Mustang gives it a long, slow look. “Do you have a translation?”
“What?” Pirate Guy snatches it back, then lets off a stream of gibberish that’s got to be
swearing.
“Is there a problem?” Mustang asks mildly. Ed can’t imagine what the fuck is so contingent
on Mustang being able to read a piece of paper, but that’s just gonna go on the already too
long list of questions he’s going to ask the first librarian he comes across, starting with can
wizards mind read and how the fuck do you make a flowerpot teleport people.
“Just wait,” Pirate Guy growls, then waves his stick and mutters something. And then bluewhite mist gushes out of the stick and coalesces into - a shark. A shimmery translucent shark.
The floating fucking ghost shark does a loop in midair and hovers in front of Pirate Guy, who
straight up tells it, “Get Albus. We’re having some translation problems.”
The shark dips once like it’s fucking nodding and then winks away into nothingness. “Did we
just fucking see that,” Ed says under his breath.
“Unfortunately,” Mustang mutters back, sounding just as happy about it. “How much do you
want to bet the stick is a weapon?”
“No bet,” Ed mutters. “Looks flammable, at least.”
“Most things are,” Mustang murmurs, just as there’s a crack and another person teleports in -
this one with an actual pointy hat, a bathrobe and a white beard straight down to his fucking
knees.
“Hello, Alastor,” he says, a stick in his hand as well. “You called?”
“Yes. They can’t read English,” Pirate Guy says shortly.
“Ah. In that case, the order of the phoenix’s headquarters can be found at number twelve
grimmauld place.”
And then the shimmer to Ed’s right roars apart, coalescing into an entire fucking house, spat
out by the air like a watermelon seed with a paved walkway and gables. “Welcome,” beard
guy says like this is all totally normal and expected, opening the iron front gate and walking
into the garden. “We can speak freely inside.”
Ed and Mustang have basically no choice but to follow beard guy into a house that literally
wasn’t there twenty seconds ago - though maybe it was, and that was what the shimmer was
indicating, an invisible compression of mass. Setting aside the utterly impossible violation of
physics - and he has to set it aside, or he will go bonkers, right now - Ed has to admit that’s at
least better fucking opsec than just having the vigilantes meet in someone’s totally unsecured
living room.
That sentiment lasts about as long as it takes to get through the front door, because this place
looks like a cross between a funeral home and the kind of haunted house the Ringers and the
Welltungs set up for the kids every harvest festival back in Resembool. Ed likes all things
gargoyles, sure, but this place is way less ‘gargoyles’ and way more ‘gangrene caused by
mold’.
“So! You are our Amestrisan visitors?” Beard Guy says with unexpected cheeriness, turning
around in the foyer before they get more than a couple steps in. He twinkles at Mustang as
Pirate Guy shuts the door behind them. “I assume you are the one in uniform.”
“Indeed. General Roy Mustang, Lieutenant Colonel Edward Elric,” Mustang introduces
them, smiling like they’re not all standing way too close in a creeptastic front hall lit only by
the streetlamps outside. “You are…?”
“A pleasure to meet you, Roy, Edward,” Beard Guy says. Ed tries not to grimace; the
translation rock smooths away accents on everything except names - the bits that don’t
translate, presumably - so it’s extra freaky to hear perfect Amestrisan and then have
Ehhhdworrd drop in there like a rock in a bowl of chicken stew. “My name is Albus Dumbell
Door.”
That doesn’t sound right, not least because Albus had the accent and the rest of it didn’t, but
it’s not like Ed’s gonna remember this guy’s name anyway. “I am the headmaster of hog
warts school of witch craft and wizardry and current head of the order of the phoenix.”
“My understanding was that we were to meet with Amelia Bones,” Mustang says, probably
because this guy looks like he’s a hundred and fucking three and also like he just crawled out
of some kind of world’s ugliest nightshirt convention.
“Unfortunately she is currently tied up in court due to her official position,” Beard Guy says
all apologetic. “She will join us as soon as she is able, and in the meantime I believe I can fill
you in on the basics. I’m sure that you have questions.”
That’s not a great first start, having an expected police contact swapped out for some
schoolteacher they have no background on, but again, it’s not like Ed and Mustang have any
choice. “Of course,” Mustang says graciously, somehow managing to make it sound like
Beard Guy now owes him a favor. “Lead the way.”
They end up in a sitting room that would probably give whatever professional cleaning team
got called in for it six kinds of hepatitis. Ed can’t sit like he wants no part of the seat touching
him, because unfortunately all Mustang’s ramblings about body language and power moves
have if not sunk in than at least left a stain, so he settles for sprawling in one ghastly armchair
and thanking his erratically lucky stars for the lasting habit of keeping his gloves on.
Mustang sits down next to him, clasping his hands over one knee and looking relaxed and
unperturbed and not at all like he’s going to have his entire uniform double dry cleaned the
second he sets foot out of here. Beardy sits down across from them, and Pirate stumps around
to stand behind him like a bodyguard.
“I’d offer refreshments, but I’m afraid I’m not the master of this house and creature isn’t
terribly fond of polite overtures,” Beardy says. Whatever the fuck that means. “Now… is it
just the two of you?”
“For the moment,” Mustang says noncommittally. “We’re here to evaluate the situation on
the ground.”
“Bones said her pal was a general in the most feared military in all the Unplottables,” Pirate
pipes up, not even bothering not to sound caustic as hell. “What, is two men all she could
spare?”
Mustang half lids his eyes, smiling his most guileless rattlesnake bastard smile. “Typically
Elric alone is sufficient to resolve this kind of problem, but on this occasion General
Armstrong felt it prudent to be… thorough.”
Ed has a stupid moment of wondering why the hell Mustang just called him Elric for what
might be the first time in his life before his brains come back online and remind him that,
fucking obviously, none of these wizards have ever fucking heard of the Fullmetal Alchemist,
let alone the Flame. Pirate wouldn’t be trying to measure Mustang’s dick if he had the first
clue about who he was dealing with. Ed’s pretty bad, sure, but Mustang got sent out against
garrisons in his capacity as an alchemist. Since they haven’t heard of them, though, saying
some dumb shit like don’t you know who we are, well, no you don’t but we’re super tough I
promise is just gonna be embarrassing.
“I’m afraid we’re in no position to turn down help,” Beardy says, even as his eyes flick over
Ed and then Mustang with a sharpness that doesn’t match his tone. “What exactly has Amelia
requested of you?”
“She wrote General Armstrong requesting whatever aid she felt able to give, as she does not
have the resources to neutralize the cadre of violent terrorists who had recently shown a
dramatic resurgence in activity,” Mustang says. “Our orders are to resolve the situation. Due
to the difficulty of communicating across the Divide, as of right now we are dependent on
you to provide the most current situational intel.”
Ed scowls, because that last sentence was Mustang as good as saying we might be dependent
now but if we don’t get what we need from you I’m sending Fullmetal out to get it. “Explain
the soul bonds,” he orders. “You think this lord whatever actually came back from the
dead?”
Beardy peers at Ed over his glasses. “Yes,” he says. “He has.”
“And we think this because…?” Ed says leadingly, because usually when people make claims
like that they at least pretend to have evidence.
Beardy sits back with a huge sigh, like being asked for proof of resurrection is a huge
imposition. “Some background is needed, I think,” he says. “Tom Riddle - Lord Voldemort,
as he styles himself - has pursued immortality through any means all his life, even as a
student at hog warts itself. He began gaining followers over thirty years ago, from most of the
oldest and wealthiest wizarding families, and he expanded his agenda to advance their blood
prejudices and use their support to grow his power ever higher.
"Fourteen years ago,” Beardy says, tone heavy, “a miracle happened. Riddle went to the
house of the potters, and while he succeeded in murdering James and Lily, their son survived,
and in doing so reflected the killing curse back onto its caster. Riddle’s body was destroyed -
but due to the dark rituals he had undergone in his quest for immortal life, his spirit remained,
and while he was greatly weakened he could still possess and influence others. Four months
ago he manipulated many - some his followers, some innocents - into helping complete his
darkest ritual yet, and successfully returning him to his body, stronger than he was before.”
There’s a pause. “While this is of course very interesting,” Mustang says delicately, as Ed sits
with his mouth open, “I meant information more along the lines of estimated numbers,
methods of operation, past attacks and potential future targets. That sort of thing.”
“You don’t believe us,” Pirate says, normal eye narrowed at Mustang while the pervert one
stares down Ed.
“Because you’ve presented zero evidence,” Ed says, in what he considers a very
accomodating tone. “What ‘dark rituals’? You’ve provided absolutely no specifics beyond
the timeline of the ‘resurrection’. Is this just normal for you people? Is coming back from the
dead common enough that you just take it on faith when some whackjob cultist says woo
hoo, yippee, I’m back, suckers?”
“No,” Beardy says, looking like he’s smiling under the acres of beard. “It’s not common.
Unheard of, in fact.”
“So why, exactly, are we all hopping on this guy’s dick then,” Ed says sharply. “Where is
your evidence. Resurrection is a big fucking jump to make from one motherfucker dropping
off the map for fourteen years and then popping back up again.”
“You don’t get to skive off even if they turn out to be garden variety non-soul bonded
terrorists, Fullmetal,” Mustang murmurs, sounding way too entertained.
“You said yourself you don’t have all the facts,” Pirate guy says, looking at Ed. “We’ve
fought this war before. We know what Voldy’s capable of. What he did isn’t going to change
just because you think it’s impossible.”
“It’s not fucking impossible,” Ed says irritably. “You just have no evidence. Put some up or
cool it with the whole back from the dead thing. It’s not like you need us to buy in. Terrorists
are terrorists, okay? You heard Mustang, we’re going after them regardless of what kind of
batshit fear tactics they spread.”
Beardy looks up and exchanges a long look with Pirate. Ed doesn’t know who is arguing
what, but both of them seem to be arguing it pretty fiercely. It’s unclear who wins, too,
because they both turn back to Ed and Mustang looking pretty unhappy.
“Officially, there is no mobilization of ministry forces,” Beardy tells them soberly, “because
it is believed to be impossible to rise from the dead. We speak to you of his resurrection
because what made it possible is what makes him so difficult to defeat. Just as his revival
required certain… components, killing Voldemort will require certain - conditions to be
met.”
“Okay, sure,” Ed says flatly. “Like what.”
Another long battling Pirate vs Beardy look. “Among other things, there is a prophecy,”
Beardy finally says, “whose wording implies that the power to vanquish Riddle is specific,
possibly unique, and resides in a certain individual marked by Riddle himself - arguably
given that power by the mark alone.”
Ed stares at Beardy with a dawning fury so intense it’s transmuting itself into wonder. Then
he slowly swivels his head to stare at Mustang, because Ed can’t fucking deal with this alone
and Mustang arguably deserves it more. “There’s a prophecy.”
Mustang is staring straight ahead like there’s an answer, any fucking answer to this, written
on the wall. “I heard.”
“A prophecy.”
“A prophecy.”
“A prophe-”
“Yes, a sodding prophecy,” Pirate snarls. “It was what made Voldy target the potters in the
first place -”
“Oh, perfect!” Ed exclaims, only slightly hysterical. “No problem! Just tell him there’s a
prophecy that he’ll be in, oh, the town square at twelve o’clock next Sunday, mine the entire
place with tripwires and then take an early lunch! Problem fucking solved!”
Pirate bares his teeth at Ed, but Beardy’s expression is mild. “Do you not have seers in the
Unplottable lands?”
“No,” Mustang says carefully. “Not in Amestris. We do, however, have some other notable
professions. Are you familiar with the concept of a sniper?”
Ed feels his mouth twist as Mustang says it, crazy laughter dying in his throat, but for once he
keeps his mouth shut. Last year’s border dispute with Creta had spawned a rash of guerilla
attacks in the farming towns along the river, and one of the worst swathes of devastation was
a State Alchemist defector whose specialty was creating hard vacuums. Really fucking big
ones.
A lot of people had died before they’d even got there. The defector was smart, and kept
himself both out of sight behind debris and almost constantly surrounded by a totally airless
vacuum with a radius nearly a hundred meters across. Nobody had been able to get close.
Mustang was useless with no oxygen to transmute anywhere near the target, and even Ed
wasn’t strong enough to push a transmutation across that kind of distance and without any
line of sight. Mustang had radioed for Hawkeye.
It had taken two shots: one for her to see how her bullets behaved in a vacuum, the second to
put the Void Alchemist down. Ed had been the one to transmute her a tower she could aim
from, out of Void’s range. He’d been crouching next to her, hands on the transmuted dirt,
ready to cover her as she laid down and laid out her rifle. It was taller than he was. He’d
asked, can you -
And she’d said, if I can.
The first shot had warned Void of the danger, but it hadn’t mattered. Ed had seen him run for
it, a tiny shape sprinting desperately for cover and then the retort of Hawkeye’s rifle dropping
him to the ground. Like it was the sound itself that did it, the opposite of a starter’s gun, and
not a four centimeter long bullet. She’d gotten him center mass, just below the heart, and by
the time anyone got to him through the previously unpassable area he’d been dead long
enough to start to cool.
They spent the rest of that day collecting the bodies and pieces of bodies Void had torn
through. The entire platoon of soldiers stationed in that town were dead, and something like a
third of the civilian population too. A lot had ran. It wasn’t anywhere near a sure thing that
the rich farmland town would ever recover.
It also turned out that both Ed and Hawkeye were extremely surly drunks. They’d huddled
together in the back booth of the one shithole bar left in the destruction of the town, and
Mustang had wisely chosen to fill in for the absent bartender and keep their drinks coming all
night. Ed had tried to explain his array streamlining formulas to Hawkeye to make her feel
better, and she'd utterly destroyed him in arm wrestling. They woke up the next day in a field
twenty minutes’ walk from the bar, Ed wearing Hawkeye’s uniform jacket and she in his
leather one, Havoc snoring ten meters away and an infuriatingly chipper Mustang laying in
on the horn of the car he’d parked down the way.
It had been enough to get them to the soldiers’ funerals - well attended - and the Void
Alchemist’s - not at all. Ed and Hawkeye had stood for the eulogies, saluted for the honor
guard, accepted the thanks of some of those soldiers’ parents and siblings and spouses. For
killing Void. For, in their eyes, just revenge. Amestris was war country. People understood
blood. Change did not come overnight.
Sometimes you aren’t smart enough, fast enough to find the magic sweet spot. Sometimes
you don’t find the right solution until after you’ve executed a wrong one. Sometimes prison
or capture is not an option, through lack of resources or distance or what the fuck ever. And if
these wizard terrorists aren’t even officially being recognized as a problem by law
enforcement, well. What’re these vigilantes gonna do, tie them up in their basements? Sneak
the terrorists into jail?
“I know what a sniper is,” Beardy says quietly. “It is not one of the resources available to us
at this time. In any case it would not be enough.” Beardy looks at them bleakly, exhibiting a
distinct lack of twinkle. “Riddle has split his soul, and bound and hidden the fragments in
places that are surely devastatingly well guarded, even if we knew where they were or how to
reach them. Unless every single one of them is destroyed, killing Riddle will only get rid of
his flesh body, leaving him able to return, and rise again.” Beside him Pirate nods, grim.
Ed and Mustang both stare at them for what’s probably too long a time. “But if you destroy
his body,” Ed finally says, in a slow, please-help-me-understand voice, “like what happened
fourteen years ago, he stops killing people now, right?”
“It would release him into the world as a shade, reduced but able to possess at will,” Beardy
says, all gravely like this is a fucking tragedy or whatever.
“Would discorporating him improve his current tactical position and increase the threat level
he poses to the general population,” Mustang says, as bluntly as possible to try and actually
get through to these clowns.
“No,” Beardy says slowly. “But we cannot be certain what failsafes it will unleash, or what
preparations Riddle has made in case of just such an eventuality.”
“I see.” Mustang sits back. “That’s certainly something to consider. Do we know when
Director Bones will be available to meet?” How soon can we talk to somebody who actually
knows what the fuck they’re talking about?
“I’m afraid if she hasn’t arrived yet she may not make it tonight, but certainly tomorrow,”
Beardy says, apparently not picking up on the pretty blatant fuckyou.
“Right. Thank you for your time, gentlemen,” Mustang says, standing up and dusting off his
lapel. “You’ve given us much to think about and it is, indeed, late; we’d best reconvene
tomorrow. Fullmetal,” he adds in his actually-giving-orders voice, “locate the target and
evaluate any defenses. We’ll rendezvous here at 0900.”
“Where are you going?”
“To bring in Hawkeye,” Mustang says. “And Havoc.”
Ed’s grin feels decidedly wicked as he pops up off the chair too, trying not to visibly wipe the
backs of his pants legs. “Shouldn’t leave ‘em behind in the first place.”
Mustang briefly rolls his eyes skyward. “Quite. I’d like to retrieve the rest of my team,
Moody, Albus, and I think we’d both prefer it if I had an escort.”
“Bring food too,” Ed demands, as his stomach makes it known that he hasn’t eaten in almost
two hours and expresses serious concerns about the state and availability of wizard food. “I
mean it. If you come back without pork buns I’m stealing your fucking wallet.”
“Gods forbid I let you stray into a life of crime,” Mustang bitches, tone all genteel since
they’re in company, but Ed just grins. He may just have suffered through an honest to god
briefing with prophecy as a key component, but he also just won pork buns and he knows it.
Chapter 3
Beardy follows Mustang out to the front door and Pirate keeps watching Ed like he’s gonna
do a trick, so he belays his planned exploration of the house to glare back and address his
concerns like an adult. “What?”
Pirate just eyes him some more. “Pretty big orders he gave you.”
“What.”
“Track down Voldy and evaluate his base? All by tomorrow morning?”
Ed gives Pirate a look that lets him know exactly what he thinks of the condescension. “It’s
not by tomorrow morning.” Though it would be just like Mustang to demand a fully caught
magic terrorist criminal by the stroke of fucking midnight, oh, I’m sorry, is that just too much
for you, Fullmetal? “And what the fuck do you mean, big orders? That’s the whole fucking
objective. Find the guy, take him down.”
“And he puts it all on you?”
“What? It’s my fucking op anyway,” Ed says, annoyed. If all Pirate wants to do is rehash
what they just talked about Ed’s got better shit to do. “He’s just here to heckle and give me
ulcers.”
Beardy turns up in the doorway before Ed can leave, though, and smiles beardily at him.
“Would you be so kind as to accompany Roy back to the boundary, Alastor? I can help
Edward settle in.”
Pirate and Ed grunt in synchronized annoyance, Ed pushing out into the hallway first. “Right
this way,” Beardy says, sweeping ahead of Ed before he can go abuse Mustang some more.
They’re around the corner and up some stairs before it fully sinks in that Mustang left him to
sleep in this fucking biohazard.
Oh, that son of a bitch. Ed cannot believe Mustang didn’t spring for a hotel room. Fucking
hell, do wizards even have hotel rooms? Are all their houses like this? They can’t all be like
this, there’ve got to be families raising children and if you bring a toddler in here you’ve got
sixty seconds before they choke. Wait, do wizards even have money?
“There are a few others your age staying here, though I’m sure you’d all prefer proper
introductions in the morning,” Beardy says like this is some consolation prize. Ed just stares
blankly at him, wondering what the fuck age Beardy thinks he is. “For now let us see where
you might retire. I must warn you not to go wandering, as many areas of this house are still
dangerous,” Beardy adds, so Ed resolves to do a top to bottom exploration as soon as possible
no matter how gross this place is. “Though hopefully we can find a spare room without too
much trouble. I’m loathe to wake up Molly, and there should be…. aha! Here.”
Pushing open the closest moldering door reveals a dank little depressive episode of a room,
with the dust and grime so thick on the floor that for a second Ed thinks the hardwood is
carpeted. “You’ve gotta be kidding me,” he says aloud.
“It’s not much, but it should suffice for the night,” Beardy says with the kind of geniality that
tells Ed he did notice Mustang’s fuck you, alright, and is paying it back in kind on the nearest
hapless victim. “I wish you a peaceful rest and kind dreams. We have much to discuss
tomorrow.”
And with that fucking fortune cookie slip Beardy whisks off down the hallway. Ed considers
the pros and cons of transmuting the floorboards to trap him midway down the stairs and
leave him planted there for the night like a grandpa garden gnome, but decides against it. If
whoever the fuck else is in this house is asleep then making a racket is gonna be a worse first
impression than he’s already going to make.
He enters the room, shutting the door and prying open the window so that he can at least have
breathable fucking air in here. He’s got orders, but Mustang can just fucking sit on them and
wait after leaving him to spend the night in a condemned hovel full of wizards. Ed pokes the
fossilized mattress with his boot, then strips the sheets off, claps and transmutes it shorter and
thicker. A lot of dust but no bugs or weird mysterious gross stuff shakes out of the
transmutation, so, great, he doesn’t have to burn the entire house down, and transmuting both
sheets and bedframe to match the new dimensions produces similar results. When he’s done
Ed sits on his new clean bed, digs out the ration bar tucked into his inner jacket pocket and
moodily polishes it off.
Wizards.
Then Ed sighs, fishes out his field notebook and gets on with fulfilling his promise to Al. If
he doesn’t get a research paper out of this he’s going to break some goddamn kneecaps.
-oEd ends up catching a couple hours’ sleep despite having to do it in a room designed
specifically for creepy doll children, though he still wakes up - he flicks aside the
decomposing curtains - about an hour before dawn. He exercises, looks over his notes,
wishes he’d brought more than one pair of regular gloves as he has to transmute clean
everything he’s wearing and then goes looking for something to eat.
And something with magic in it. On it, whatever. Potential interesting research paper topics
include studying the specifics of how magic interacts with alchemy, so he might as well get
that test out of the way just in case it turns out to be super boring.
There’s no sign of Beardy downstairs, or, well, anybody, but he finds a kitchen and then a
cold cellar, which contains both cheese and cured ham. The doors don’t seem to want to open
in this place, but an automail foot in a steel-toed boot is generally a pretty universal lever
with which to move the world. Ed leans against the kitchen counter, chewing, and lets his
gaze travel over the soot-stained tiles, peeling cabinets and fossilized oak table. Working on
the assumption that weird air shimmers indicate magic in effect - not a great theory, but all
he’s got at the moment - absolutely nothing in this kitchen is magical. Ed frowns, crams the
rest of the ham and cheese in his mouth, dusts off his hands and goes hunting.
It’s fucking dark as hell in this house - naturally not a single window has been cleaned in the
past, presumably, six to eight thousand years - and nothing seems to be wired for electricity,
so Ed has to transmute a flint striker out of a flagstone and light the couple of candles in wall
sconces he comes across. It takes some standing in the living rooms and staring straight
ahead while looking out the corners of his eyes in flickery candlelight, but he eventually
catches it. “Aha,” he hisses under his breath, striding up to one of the framed paintings on the
wall - a huntsman in weird pants sleeping under a tree with his weird dogs - and examining
the faint haze curling around the edges of the frame.
His hands tingle even through the gloves as he takes the painting down and inspects it. He
can’t tell what the magic is doing, but maybe it’s another size thing like the invisible house
was and the painting’s real dimensions are like four meters across. It doesn’t feel heavier than
it should, and it looks like a normal painting, oil on canvas, not fucked up in any visible way.
Ed sets it down on the grime-encrusted coffee table and considers the best way to test the
tingle. It’s the only indicator of magic presence beyond visible air distortion he has to work
with, and that posits some kind of particle exchange with the surrounding elements; it’s got to
be giving off some kind of radiation. The painting feels like wood and paint and cloth, carbon
and oxygen and zinc oxide , so it really shouldn’t be emitting anything, but it is and a quick
way to test what’s going on is to change the composition and see if the magic is just a surface
coating type deal or bound to the molecules of the painting itself.
Ed claps, charging a simple wood to graphite array, and he’s just about to lay hands on the
frame when the painted man fucking jumps up and starts screaming.
Ed shouts in surprise and loses the transmutation to alchemical discharge, sparks crackling
around his hands, only suddenly all the other paintings on the walls are moving and also
screaming, the dogs in the first painting are howling at a volume that indicates they are not
two inches tall and made of oil and pigment but rather full size and in the room with him, and
some of the paintings are jabbing their fingers at him and yelling while others are running
around and running into other paintings. The yelling and wailing starts coming from upstairs,
too, and then a door slams open, then another, and a bunch of people come crashing into the
room to join in the circus.
Ed is not a fan of being yelled at and even less a fan of having those magic sticks pointed
anywhere near him, but right now his biggest concern is that the fucking decor is coming
alive like a bad horror drama. “What the fuck is happening,” he snarls, as a bunch of kids
thunder down the hallway and spill into the room behind everybody else and it sinks in that
he’s hearing total gibberish because when Mustang left he’d taken the translation rock with
him.
Ed’s gonna transmute Mustang’s asshole shut. In the meantime he settles for making sure his
back’s to the wall and figuring out the fastest way to get rid of all their magic sticks if this
gets ugly. “Keep pointing that at me and we’ll see how far it can go up your nose,” he snaps
at the worst offender, a short guy in the top hat, because he’s not gonna clap until he
absolutely has to.
That just makes the guy wave it and yell louder, and Ed’s about to snarl and take a swipe
when a guy with a mustache waves his own stick and says something and with a tingle and a
weird pop in Ed’s ears suddenly everybody’s making sense again.
“- you doing! Top Hat is shouting. “How did you get in?”
“Intruder! Thief!” the huntsman painting hollers from Ed’s feet, pointing accusingly up at
him. “He’s come to kill us all in our beds!”
“Who are you? Who let you inside?” some ginger lady demands.
“Why is the painting moving,” Ed yells back, because he feels it’s a more pressing question
here. “Why can it talk?”
This brings everybody to a screeching halt and gets him a lot of wide eyed stares. “You’re a
muggle?” one of them says dumbly.
“He’s a wear wolf,” Top Hat says urgently. “Look at his eyes!”
“I thought wear wolves couldn’t be muggles,” one redhead guy says confusedly. “Or, I mean,
the other way around, I guess -”
“He’s not a muggle,” Mustache says, the only person not shouting like a fucking maniac.
“He’s one of the delegation from the Unplottables, I believe. Amestris, yes?”
The two disjointed words just clicked, however, and instead of responding to the one sane
person Ed has to round on Top Hat. “A werewolf? You people have fucking werewolves?”
Top Hat backs up quick, still pointing his stick at Ed’s face. “Of course! Did you think we
wouldn’t know?”
“Know what? That werewolves are real?”
“Yes,” Mustache answers, suddenly sounding tired. “He’s not a werewolf, Dedalus -”
“Look at his eyes!”
“ - not everyone with an unusual eye color is a magical creature,” Mustache finishes, now
sounding like he wants nothing more on this mortal earth than to crawl into bed and sleep for
ten thousand years. “He’s from across the boundary.”
“And we don’t have werewolves,” Ed says. “Because they are fictional.”
“Not here,” one of the guy redheads snorts.
“Yeah, sure, whatever,” Ed snaps, because the sheer volume of nutty shit is forcing him to
triage and a lot of disturbing implications are filtering through. “These paintings aren’t just
fucking talking, they’re reacting to current fucking events. Are they sentient?”
“You don’t have moving portraits in Amestris?” one redheaded guy says bemusedly.
“No, we don’t. Is this thing alive,” Ed stresses, jabbing down at the frame with one finger.
“It’s a painting, mate,” another redhead says, voice identical to the previous one.
“Yes, thank you, we’ve established that,” Ed snaps. On second glance it turns out it’s not
doppelgangers, just twins. “I asked how is it talking. What’s powering it. Who even did this?”
Ed sticks a finger at the picture. “Do you know you’re stuck in a painting?”
“I am a painting, you dog! I am the leisure portrait of Lord Antimignius Black the Third -”
“Why did you take the painting off the wall?” says a redhead suspiciously.
“To find out why the fuck it was moving,” Ed snaps, because he’s not about to tell them he
was gonna try and transmute the hell out of it just to see what happened. Especially not now
that it turns out they might be people. “Are there human souls bound to these fucking things
or not?”
A lot of eyes go wide, and Ed really doesn’t like how the non-redhead girl suddenly looks
very fucking worried. “Well?” he demands.
“Human souls?” Suspicious redhead asks incredulously. “In a painting?”
“Are they?” Ed sees a lot of confused glances and shrugs go around the room. “Do you all
not know the answer?”
“They aren’t human souls,” Mustache says in a please-stop-brandishing-the-machete-sir
voice. “They are facsimiles imbued with an imprint of their subject’s personality - a copy,
given limited awareness of its surroundings, but not a person.”
“How are we defining person here,” Ed presses, because no fucking automaton can respond
like that, like a live human, so naturally and specifically and in real time. Nobody looks even
slightly certain about any of what Mustache is claiming, and the non-redhead girl, the only
other person here besides Ed with skin darker than skim milk, is starting to look a little green.
Ed stabs a finger down at the painting of Hunt Lord Whatever, who gasps in outrage and
turns away in a huff. “You can’t program that level of response. Do you even know how
they’re made? Do any of you know?”
“I’m sure there are books that explain the process in detail,” Mustache says, but Ed knows
when he’s being sold a crock of pig shit with a mint sprig on top. “We can look into it
together if you like. I know that magical painters go through years of specialized study, but I
must admit I don’t know what the techniques entail, mister... I’m sorry, we didn’t get your
name?”
“Elric,” Ed says tersely. Like hell is he letting these whackjobs call him Ed.
“A pleasure,” Mustache lies through his teeth. “I’m Remus loop in. This is Molly Weasley,
and her children, Fred, George -”
A lot of names go dragging by, people nodding or mumbling greeting as they get pointed out,
putting away their sticks. Ed watches all of them with narrowed eyes and comes to terms
with the fact that he’s not getting any decent answers out of any of these cattle. It wasn’t that
they were hiding magic painting secrets from him: he saw their faces. They just don’t know.
They don’t care that they don’t know. Most of them, anyway. The sole non-redhead girl still
looks disturbed, shooting glances at both him and the paintings on the wall and on the coffee
table.
“Are you here alone?”
Ed flicks his eyes back to Mustache, who’s apparently concluded his little roll call. There’s
no point pursuing the paintings question with him. Ed will just have to find his own answers
later. He shrugs. “For now.”
Mustache doesn’t really smile, but he puts away his stick and makes with the open body
language in Ed’s direction. “Who brought you in?”
It’s a nice try, but friendly bounces off Ed like shrapnel ricochet on a good day and he’s not
exactly feeling receptive at the moment. “Some teacher.”
“A teacher?”
Ed shrugs again. “Beard down to here.”
“Ah.” Ed gets some incredulous looks for that. Maybe mentioning the length of someone’s
beard here is the equivalent of making a raunchy dick joke. “Head master Dumbell Door,”
Mustache says. “Did he say when he’d be back?”
“This morning,” Ed allows, because it’s not like they won’t find that out themselves as soon
as he gets here.
“Well,” an older redhead lady says. “In that case I’ll just go get a start on breakfast.” She
doesn’t sound super happy about it, but it’s like some sort of signal for everybody to start
relaxing, some of the wizards yawning and shuffling out with a couple last curious looks at
Ed.
That’s politer than the open staring he gets from everyone who hasn’t left the room, which is
mostly the kids, one crazy-looking guy with a prison haircut and Mustache. Ed sighs and
goes to stick the painting back on the wall, but Lord Paint Guy isn’t having it. “Unhand me!”
he hollers, the dogs baying up at Ed again. “The likes of you are unfit to even clean my
boots!”
Ed promptly drops the painting back to the coffee table in disgust. “See, that’s just fucking
unnatural. Am I groping some dead guy’s soul or not?”
“You godless cur! I demand to be inspected for damages!” Lord Paint Guy shouts.
“For the love of merlin,” Prison Haircut mutters, then, “Creature!”
Something appears right next to Ed with a crack, and before Ed can control the reflex he
kicks out and punts whatever it is across the room. In the next second he has time to think oh
fuck did I just full force kick A CHILD before the shape hurriedly rights itself and proves to
be a not just a child but a goddamn chimera.
If Ed’s arm was still metal he would’ve had to stop himself from blading it on reflex. “Fuck,
sorry,” he tells the chimera kid through gritted teeth. He’s putting his metal leg up someone’s
ass clear to the knee for this. “You okay?”
To the astonishment of absolutely everybody Prison Haircut starts cracking up laughing like a
lunatic. “S-sorry,” he barks, looking anything but, lank dark hair swinging as he doubles over.
“He just - clear across the room - oh, merlin -”
The kid looks okay, not standing like it’s - he? - is injured and staring at Ed with enormous
bulging eyes. Crossed with a bat, with those eyes and ears, Ed thinks, nauseated with anger.
The little chimera boy can’t be more than knee high, and he’s wearing what looks like a dirty
rag around his waist. “Sorry,” Ed repeats, trying not to sound like he’s actively planning to
waterboard the still laughing wizard with carbolic acid. “What’s your name?”
“That’s creature,” Psycho Asshole gasps, wiping his eyes. “He’s the house elf.”
“Did I fucking ask you?”
That at least gets Psycho Prison Asshole to stop laughing. Even the dogs in the painting stop
barking. “Oi, he’s my house elf,” Psycho says, frowning, suicidal or stupid enough to admit
it. “It’s not like he was gonna answer you anyway.”
“So you did that to him,” Ed says very evenly, pulling his white cotton gloves off one at a
time and taking the black leather ones out of his inner jacket pocket instead. “Good to
know.”
“Did what to him? You’re the one who kicked him clear across the room,” Psycho says,
scowling at Ed and taking his magic stick back out of his pocket.
“That’s just what happens when things teleport into my personal space,” Ed says flatly,
because he hasn’t stayed alive this long by not kicking things that suddenly appear way the
fuck too close to him. He flexes his hands in the heavy gloves, settling the fit, and pivots to
Psycho. “There’s a big fucking difference between having a reflex and doing that to a child.”
“Serious hasn’t done anything to creature,” Mustache says abruptly, stepping forward. “He’s
not a child, either. He’s just a house elf.”
“Do you… not have house elves either?” Non-redhead girl says tentatively, also stepping
forward like she and Mustache are actually gonna do shit to stop Ed. “If you don’t have
werewolves…”
The chimera boy hasn’t moved from where he picked himself up by the wall watching them,
eyes flicking back and forth. Ed flexes his right fist, gloves creaking. He doesn’t know what
the fuck a house elf is but these fuckers seem real fucking sure about it. “Does the word
chimera mean anything to you?”
He gets a lot of puzzled looks for that one. “Uh… you mean the lion head, snake tail, goat
body thing? My brother took care of a cub for his job once,” one of the redheads volunteers.
“No,” Ed says, although that does sound like some real fuckin’ sick alchemist threw a whole
zoo of animals into a circle and let it rip. “I’m talking about human-animal transmutation.”
There’s another silence, most of the wizards exchanging baffled looks. “Wait. Transmutation
is alchemy,” non-redhead girl suddenly says, biting her lip. “You think creature was…
made?”
“Are you telling me he wasn’t?” Ed says tightly. If she at least knows what alchemy is, that
already makes her leaps and bounds more educated on the subject than the rest of these brain
heroes.
The girl shakes her head, looking relieved and curious but most of all sure of herself. “I’ve
researched house elves. There aren’t any records of them being artificially created in any way
- the earliest texts have references to groups of them living in deep forests. As far as I can tell
they’re a naturally occurring magical species that got brainwashed by wizards.”
Ed turns to the kid. “Were you born like that?”
“Answer him,” Psycho says.
The kid eyes Ed. “Born like what,” he finally says, in scratchy voice.
“Were you ever human?” Ed asks, a solid half of his concentration on not just transmuting
Psycho into a toilet.
And that right there is unmistakably a sneer. Not a child’s expression. “No.”
Some of the bone-deep tension in Ed’s shoulders uncoils, loosening down his arms. He lets
out a slow breath between his teeth, nods slowly and then turns back to Psycho. “So you just
think it’s funny that I kicked him?”
“You know what? Yeah,” Psycho says meanly. “Creature’s got it coming. He’d sell us all to
the dark lord for a moldy biscuit. We can’t even free him because he’d run and tell the death
eaters everything he knows, even if it’d get his stupid self killed too.”
“So you call him creature, order him around, laugh when he gets hurt and keep him against
his will,” Ed says caustically. “I’d be pretty fucking happy to sell you out under those
conditions too. And what the fuck was that about brainwashing?”
“It’s been going on for generations,” the smartypants girl who knows all about elves says
with surprising vehemence. “To the point where they now teach themselves that their place is
servitude, and that they deserve horrible punishments and to live in abysmal conditions. A lot
of them are so brainwashed they’re terrified of being freed.”
“So he’s a slave,” Ed concludes, leather creaking on the knuckles of his gloves. “And this shit
is common.” No fucking wonder practically nobody wants to go to wizard world; the only
real mystery is why the fuck Xing isn’t constantly dealing with waves of refugees from this
fucking hellhole.
“It’s very common,” Smartypants says quietly, bitterly. She’s looking down at the floor now.
“And there’s really nothing I can do. Not right now.”
“You can’t just open the door?” Ed asks, voice coming out more biting than incredulous.
“Here, I’ll hold psycho over here down, you clear a path to the hallway.”
“Ha!” Psycho barks.
Smartypants half-smiles, but it quickly falls and she shakes her head. “House elves are bound
by their magic to the house and master of the house. It takes a deliberate act from the master
to free the elf.”
Ed turns a gimlet stare on Psycho. “I’m sure I can convince him.”
Smartypants shakes her head again. “It would put us all in danger,” she says quietly. “He
really would go tell the dark lord.”
“We really cannot free him,” Mustache says, actually sounding apologetic, putting a hand on
Smartypants’ shoulder. Ed looks around the room: nobody else has said anything, and none
of them look surprised, or concerned, or even resigned. They don’t care. “He has made his
intentions very clear.”
“I know,” Smartypants says more sharply, though she’s looking down again, fluffy hair
falling around her face. “It doesn’t mean the whole thing isn’t despicable.”
Ed considers the pros and cons of pulping both of Psycho’s cheekbones and then moving on
to give every other wizard asshole here a love tap to remember this conversation by. Mustang
will ream him out for hours if he does it, which isn’t enough to stop Ed but does make him
consider the long game of just quietly making Psycho’s life hell instead. On that, Mustang
has an ironclad standing policy of don’t fucking embarrass me by getting caught.
If the… house elf ... explicitly plans to go straight to their lord whatever, then freeing him
gives Ed an express ride straight to the terrorists.
If the elf’s plan is to sell information - if the wizards are telling the truth, or even know the
truth here - then the elf is going to try and set up a meeting with the terrorist group. The
wizards all seem pretty certain that the terrorists are going to want this information, which is
a decent chance that the terrorists will actually try and meet with the elf. Thus leading Ed
straight to them.
“Hold it,” Ed says sharply, a horrible suspicion beginning to form. “What exactly is the
terrorists' political agenda? What are they pushing for?” Because if it’s A-okay to fucking
own slaves in normal society, then it’s very possible that who gets labeled a terrorist might
just be inconveniently active people who believe in inconvenient things like human rights
and, oh, ending slavery. "Your death eaters. What the fuck do they want?"
“To kill all the muggle born,” one redhead guy says sharply. “You unplottables are really out
of touch, aren’t you?”
Ed couldn’t give less of a fuck how backwards these slavers think he is. “And those are?” he
says, with galactic patience.
“Me,” Smartypants says. “And everyone else like me.” For a second Ed thinks she means her
ethnicity, because she definitely looks like she’s from somewhere a lot sunnier than the rest
of these milk-faces, but then she says, “Neither of my parents have magic. That’s what
muggle born means - my parents are muggles.” Her mouth twists. “The death eaters think
that makes me impure.”
“They also want power,” Mustache says, eyeing Ed. “But blood prejudice is central to their
agenda and the core of their recruiting strategy. The enslavement and mass killing of
muggles, muggle born and other races seen as intrinsically inferior is both a favored tactic
and common goal of death eaters.”
“Huh.” Not the anti-slavery crusade; just good old fashioned genocide. That‘s kind of
depressing, actually, but it does make things simpler.
Also, the elf can teleport. Ed, currently, can’t. Before he frees the elf he has to figure out how
to at least track him first. Fucking teleporting should be at the top of his list of magic shit to
crack apart anyway.
Ed squeezes and relaxes his hands, then starts unstrapping the gloves to swap them back out
for the white ones. “Somebody said something about breakfast?”
Chapter 4
Chapter Notes
hermione we all know u got a weakness for hot foreign dudes and that this one’s at least
heard of the periodic table but ed’s too highly strung for u
See the end of the chapter for more notes
The… elf… gives Ed one last long inscrutable look and vanishes with another crack, so that’s
that problem tabling itself for now. The wizards pretty much all look like they want to say
something to Ed but can’t figure out how, so he decides to spare them the burden of cognition
they’re clearly unprepared for and heads for the kitchen himself.
He ends up last one in, however: he doesn’t expect the food to be fucked up, because the
cheese and ham he had earlier were perfectly normal examples of their species, but he has
absolutely zero desire to nestle in at the cozy band of crazies communal table they’ve got
going in the kitchen, especially since plates, napkins, mugs, cutlery and kettles of boiling
water are flying around in the fucking air setting themselves. Ed stays the fuck in the hall
until everybody’s seated and the maelstrom of possessed kitchenware dies down, but he can’t
reverse engineer teleportation on an empty stomach. He goes in.
“Elric, was it? Your plate is here,” Breakfast Lady says when he tries to go sit at the very
furthest corner of the kitchen. She’s pointing over at all the teenagers, clustered on the far end
away from the adults.
“Did you just try to sit me at the kiddy table?” Ed says blankly, too caught in the absolute
dissonance of that idea to properly sound enraged about it.
“I’m sorry?”
“Never mind. I’ll stand.” Ed scoops up the plate of eggs and toast and puts his back to the
wall, leaning against the end of one of the kitchen counters. “Thanks for the food. I’d pay but
my CO is a fucking dick and dumped me here without even knowing if you guys even know
what money is.”
That makes the entire redheaded half of the room bristle. “Yeah, we’re aware of it, thanks,”
one of them says acerbically.
“Grea’. What kin’ is it?” Ed says around half the toast. He rolls his eyes and swallows his
mouthful at the blankly hostile looks. “Paper, coins, fairy wishes, credit, what?”
“You didn’t know if we used money?” one of the redhead kids says incredulously.
“You do ‘magic’,” Ed says sarcastically, with accompanying bunny ear fingers. “How the
fuck should I know how you pay for anything?”
“Wizard money is all coins,” Smartypants pipes up. “Muggle money has coins too but they’re
small denomination. Theirs is mostly paper and credit.” She cranes around a redhead to look
more directly at him. “I’m sorry… who did you say dumped you here?”
“My CO,” Ed says, bored. “Commanding officer. He’s picking up my tab. Are all of you in
the vigilante thing?”
“You’re in the military?” Smartypants says, surprise rippling around the entire kitchen. “Is
that why you’re here?”
“You didn’t answer my question,” Ed points out, nicer than he might’ve been since
Smartypants seems to be the only person with both morals and brains so far.
“We’re not of age,” she says, shrugging. “They won’t let us join.”
“Hermione,” Mustache says quietly from up the table, in a we’ve been over this tone.
“You know you don’t have to formally, like, join a club to be a vigilante, right,” Ed points
out, because that’s one of his very least favorite tones to hear ever. “You don’t get a special
badge or anything. You just go out and do the shit you need to do.”
Breakfast Lady actually gasps at this like Ed’s dropped his pants and mooned the entire table.
“Elric, she is a child!”
“And you got a bad case of terrorists,” Ed points out, mostly to be an asshole. “Doesn’t sound
like they give much of a shit how old you are.”
“That’s what we’ve been saying,” Smartypants says, looking deeply vindicated.
“Muggles join the army at seventeen,” one of the twins says, with the tone of getting back on
the rails of a familiar argument.
“Seems like wizards have armies too, in the Unplottables,” says the other twin.
“Yeah, Elric, when did you join?”
“Twelve,” Ed says blandly. Everybody stops chewing. “But I was a special case.”
“Twelve?” Breakfast Lady demands, looking horrified.
“Yeah, I had shit to do,” Ed says vaguely. He’s gotten the oh my god you were twelve?!?!?
hysteria so many times that his brain just skips right over that whole act at this point, though
the initial looks on people’s faces are usually pretty fun. “Why’re you so freaked about
teaching the kids vigilante shit? That’s way better than the military. Like, sure, the pay is
crap, but at least you don’t have to follow orders. Or get court martialed.”
There’s a lot of pity on the adult faces, which is hilarious coming from wizards, but the twins
are now looking at him like they’ve just woken up in a candy factory. “Do you worry about
court martials a lot, Elric?”
“Would you say they are a major concern in your life?”
“Uh, no,” Ed says. “They know if they kick me out I’ll just go make crazy money in the
private sector.” Though honestly they’re probably more worried about him defecting to Xing
or something instead. Or going back to East and starting a cult. Most likely both.
“Can’t getting court-martialed put you in jail?” Smartypants asks, sounding concerned.
Ed has to laugh. “Oh, that’s a good one,” he snorts. “Jail! That is hilarious. It’s hilarious, see,
because it’s a lot harder to use someone who’s in jail. In the military they can just give you
orders.”
“You don’t sound like you like being in the military much,” the only redhead girl kid
observes.
Ed shrugs, getting back to his breakfast plate. “Pay’s good.” That’s nowhere near the whole
of why he didn’t crack his alchemist’s watch over Mustang’s head and skip off into the sunset
after the Promised Day, but it’s not like this crop of daisies will understand any of it.
“But you just said you can make a lot of money in the private sector,” Redhead guy with a
ponytail says, piping up from the adult side of the table.
Ed shrugs again. “But no’ accfeff’ nearly af’ much refearch,” he says through the rest of the
toast.
“What kind of research?” Smartypants says, perking up.
“Alchemy,” Ed says, hiding the roll of his eyes by scooping more food in his mouth.
The twins exchange looks. “Like lead into gold?”
“That’s illegal,” Ed says comfortably, sopping up eggs with his last remaining scrap of toast.
“So have you done it?” the other twin says, everybody now giving Ed extremely interested
looks.
“Uh, everyone’s done it,” Ed says, frowning at them. Lead to gold is like, page three of kiddy
alchemy 101. “It’s the most popular course demo at every school fair ever.”
More exchanged looks. “But it’s illegal?”
“They turn it back,” Ed says irritably. “It’s allowed for school demos and things. You just
can’t go around counterfeiting. Gold starts turning up out of nowhere, the town alchemists
are the first place they look, and if they catch you it’s seven years’ military service. Most
alchemists don’t bother.”
“Is that what happened to you?” Smartypants says, eyes wide.
“What? No.” As if he would have gotten caught, even as a kid back in Resembool. “Lead to
gold is like the most boring fucking thing there is, you just knock off three protons and
you’re done.” It does take good control, because if you don’t know what you’re doing you
can exhaust yourself just dumping power into the array using it like a prybar when a scalpel
is what you need, but Ed’s not about to tell them that either. It’s why the military started
drafting the gold counterfeiters instead of just throwing them to the firing squad - if you’re
good enough to make it efficient and bold enough to think you can get away with it, they can
use you.
“Knocking off protons?” Smartypants says, eyes even bigger now. “But - you - only particle
accelerators can do that.”
“Particle accelerator?” Ed rolls the words around, considering. “Okay, yeah, not inaccurate,
but alchemist just sounds better.” He cocks his head at Smartypants, who’s staring back at
him with something like alarm. She’s not an idiot. “Where’s the nearest library?”
Immediately after the words leave his mouth Ed remembers Mustang’s inability to read the
piece of paper Pirate handed him. He knocks his head back against the cabinets sharply and
hisses through his teeth. “Fuck. First. Is there a translation rock for books?”
“What do you need a library for?” Psycho says suspiciously.
“To fuck the books, dipshit,” Ed snaps. “What do you think I’m gonna do in a library?”
Psycho narrows his eyes. “Oh, is that what your military sent you here for? To sit and read
some books?”
“There’s a library upstairs,” Smartypants says quickly, before Ed can transmute Psycho’s
pants to his chair and give him a haircut with thrown cutlery. “I know a translation spell for
text - it’s for greek, but we could try to modify it?”
“Upstairs? Great,” Ed says, putting his plate down with a clack and pushing off the counter.
“Let’s go.”
“The library’s not safe to enter,” Mustache says immediately, exchanging a quick look with
Psycho that screams absolutely the hell no . “It hasn’t been cleaned yet and is full of dark
books in any case.”
“Creature, don’t let anybody in the library,” Psycho orders more directly, eyes boring into Ed.
Nothing happens, but Psycho doesn’t look disappointed or mad or anything so presumably
the elf heard with his magic elf ears.
Ed narrows his eyes right back. “Alright, let’s go find a different library,” he says, because if
he just transmutes a hole in the wall now it’ll turn into a fight and then Mustang will drone at
him for literal days and then probably assign him a stakeout in a sewer. He’ll just have to
wait until they’ve relaxed their guard to find out what it is in there they want to hide so bad.
“Um,” Smartypants says, hesitating, then brightens. “We could go to the welcome collection
library. It’s not far.”
“I’ll come too,” Redhead not-a-twin says quickly.
“Me too,” Redhead girl says, hurriedly picking up her plate and taking it to the sink.
“All of you still have cleaning to do,” Breakfast Lady says, in a tone that would probably be
sharper if she weren’t still eyeing Ed with, if he had to guess, appalled disapproval.
“Come on, mum, it’s the holidays!” Redhead girl says. “We’ve been cleaning for days!
Besides, we’re just going to the library. You know, studying? Books?”
“It’s not safe,” Breakfast Lady snaps, finally looking at her kid.
“Why not? Hairy’s out there right now, all alone,” Redhead girl snaps right back, whirling on
her. “We’re all going to be together, and it’s not like you can just keep us all stuck in this
place forever! It’s only muggle London, anyway!”
“I’m muggle born,” Smartypants adds in a reasonable kind of voice that makes her sound
very responsible, especially next to Miss Redhead. Ed would know, because Al uses it next to
Ed a lot, to devastating effect. “I know my way around.”
“None of you are adults,” Breakfast Lady snaps.
“Fred and George can come with us,” Miss Redhead counters immediately.
Mustache and Psycho both look pretty determined to not let Ed lay hands on a single
interesting thing in this house, and getting the fuck out of here is sounding better by the
second. “I’m an adult,” Ed mutters, not really wanting to get saddled with babysitting but
also really needing a library. If he’s reliant on wizards to do magic to books for him to be able
to read them then he needs to start learning their language pronto.
Naturally they all hear him. “See? Elric’s an adult. He’s in the military,” Miss Redhead says
instantly. “And, again, we’re just going to a library.”
“We’ll come too,” one twin says, both of them standing as well. “We’ll make sure nothing
happens to runny kin and gin-gin.”
Faced with a gang of teenagers - and honestly, why doesn’t she want them out of her house -
Breakfast Lady scowls and caves, though maybe that’s only obvious to Ed because she starts
a double-sided haranguing tirade with her kids first.
Ed doesn’t listen because Psycho’s also scowling, watching him hard. “Your officer just left
you here? With no orders?”
“Nah. I got orders,” Ed allows, feeling benevolent in the face of impending books.
“And they are…?”
Ed shrugs. “Find a library.”
“Those are your orders?”
“Yup.”
“I don’t believe you.”
“Ask my CO if you like,” Ed says sweetly. “He’ll be back here… well, realistically,
whenever he feels like it. I’m sure you’ll get along great.”
One of the best revenges Ed learned as he got older is that instead of jerking around authority
dickheads himself - much - he can just pass them off to Mustang. They can cry into his lapels
about how mean and awful Ed is while Ed actually goes and gets shit done, and at the end of
the day the problem’s either appeased by Mustang’s slime-speak or flat roasted. Win-win. Al
might even call it diplomacy.
And Psycho looks real unhappy with it but also like he knows there’s nothing he can do,
which is Ed’s favorite look on people. He fucking hopes Psycho complains: Mustang
deserves a goddamn headache for ditching Ed here, in this house from hell, with a bunch of
slaver wizards and hyperactive fucking kids.
Who seem to have gotten what they wanted. “Let’s go,” Miss Redhead says, hustling them all
out of the kitchen. “Come on, we need to get to the pipe.”
“The tube,” Smartypants corrects.
“Right. The tube.”
Ed does not like the sound of that, but it’s not like he has much of a choice. He has to wait by
the door while Miss Redhead and her brother go and get their wallets, and the twins and
Smartypants all wait with him. They’re all pretty unapologetic starers.
“What are you looking for?” Smartypants asks, at least pretending to act like a normal
person. “At the library. Are you researching something?”
“Teleportation,” Ed says. “Theory’s best but a how-to manual can’t hurt. The equations if
they’ve got them.”
They all exchange looks, Smartypants’ more conflicted than the twins’. “Do you mean
apparating?”
Ed huffs. “I don’t know, do I?”
“This,” one of the twins says, and disappears with a loud crack.
Ed, propelled entirely by instinct, is already whirling around. The twin’s behind him now - in
front of him once again, as Ed completes his about-face, guard up. The twin looks kinda
surprised by that, but not as surprised and fucking angry as Ed is. “You fucking too?” he
demands. The port key had been one thing, that had sounded like some kind of device, and
the elf was a magical species apparently, okay, fine, but this - “You also fucking teleport?”
“You tracked me,” the twin says, frowning, sounding uncertain.
Ed frowns back at him, because - he did. “Do it again,” he orders, this time paying attention
to whatever the fuck it is that raised his hackles and told him behind you right before the twin
reappeared.
It’s something a lot like the magic tingle, coupled, if Ed had to guess, with his combat
reflexes. The twin teleports to the right of him, then behind again, then to the left, then to the
corner of the room, and each time Ed jerks in the right direction but basically only as the
twin’s already appearing. When the twin teleports somewhere out of eyeshot and presumably
rooms away Ed can’t sense anything at all.
It’s nowhere near what he’ll need to tail a teleporting asset. “How are you doing that?” he
demands instead. “What’s powering it?”
The twins look at each other, then back at him. “Our magic?”
“Yes obviously it’s magic. How does it work?”
They explain to him about destination, deliberation, determination.
“So you’re telling me,” Ed says praying to a dead and absent god that he’s just understanding
it wrong, “that you just wish really hard, and it just happens?”
“Not everybody can do it,” one twin says.
“You can die if you mess it up,” the other one adds.
“How do you mess it up,” Ed demands. “There’s no fucking equation. Do you just not wish
hard enough?”
“Lose focus, yeah,” one twin says.
“Apparate while drunk.”
“Exhaust yourself.”
“Overextend your reach.”
“There are anti-apparition wards,” Smartypants puts in. “The nasty ones let you splinch
yourself in place.”
“You can stop people from teleporting?” Ed says, focusing on the relevant part of that
nonsense.
Smartypants nods. “Most of those spells are pretty difficult to cast unless you have a lot of
time or you’re a very strong wizard, but some places have them anchored to the grounds or
buildings. It’s why you can’t apparate at hog warts.”
“So,” Ed says, trying to assemble this fucking jigsaw puzzle of facts from hell. “You’re
saying it’s powered internally. By your own… magic, sure, whatever. The targeting is just…
visualizing your destination.”
“You can only go to places you’ve already been,” one twin adds. “Otherwise it’s really
risky.”
“Risky,” Ed begins, about to absolutely lose his mind on how they clearly can’t even fucking
understand what the word means, but then Miss Redhead comes thundering down the stairs.
“Quick, before she changes her mind,” she hisses, and blows everybody out the door.
Ed gets carried along in the resulting exodus, trying not to growl under his breath. This shit is
why he didn’t socialize with teenagers even when he was a teenager. “What about the visible
spectrum emissions?” he demands as they all hurry off down the front walk.
“The what, mate?”
“The radiation. Whatever particle interaction is happening to create the weird fucking air
shimmer on magic shit.” They pass through the front gate and onto the sidewalk, Ed
gesturing back at the house. The shimmers are way less obvious now, almost invisible in
daylight but still present at the very edges, where the magic house squeezes up against the
other ones.
They all look at the house, but most of them look confused and Miss Redhead just looks
impatient. “I don't see anything,” Not A Twin says squintily.
“Me either,” Miss Redhead says, not even looking at the house. “Are you sure it’s magic?”
“I’m getting something when you use it,” Ed says crossly. “And I can see and feel it on magic
items - the painting, the fucking flowerpot. It’s like heat haze.”
"Flowerpot?" Not A Twin mutters.
“Don’t think I’ve ever seen anything like that,” a twin says skeptically. “You said it was on
the painting you took down?”
“Yes. And there’s a physical sensation when you… apparate… around me,” Ed says, trying
not to grind his teeth. Al’s been bitching extra hard about cracked enamel and jaw strain
lately, but Ed is not going to fucking say I get a tingle when you teleport. “Do you not get
anything?”
“Wands get warm sometimes,” Smartypants says doubtfully, which supports Ed’s radiation
theory - if she’s talking about their weapon sticks, anyway - but does fuckall about his
understanding of the visual phenomena. Hell, it may be just another one of those side effects
of Ed having hit the Gate so many times he should have his own revolving door. He’s gonna
have to ask if Mustang’s also seeing this shit, though that might not even be a useful data
point because as far as Ed knows Mustang doesn’t have Ed and Al’s trick of picking up the
approximate elemental composition of things with a touch. Ed figures it takes minimum two
trips to get that little bonus: he could do it after losing his arm, but Al had only gotten the
hang of it after they got his body back.
Ed’s about to ask more about the teleporting - can they teleport objects independently? -
when the door of the house starts rattling, and Miss Redhead immediately spins and grabs her
brothers’ sweaters. “Go go go!” she hisses, and fucking again Ed gets swept up in the gang of
overgrown teenagers pelting down the sidewalk like the porch is going to explode.
Then the door bangs open behind them, and Ed decides it’s in his best interests to not waste
any more time when he could be at a library. He books it.
The kids slow down pretty quick, with the kind of panting that indicates they’re going back
to walking out of discomfort instead of preference, and from there they all bunch behind
Smartypants and act like a rookie convoy in occupied territory. Ed starts scanning their
surroundings in suspicion but nothing seems out of place: once they get out of the residential
block the streets fill up with people pretty quick, with those weird smooth cars zooming
around and bunching and jostling at the colored electric stoplights. Nobody’s dressed too
crazy and nobody gives their group a second glance, though everything is just slightly off
enough to Ed to feel slightly surreal. It certainly doesn't look like a city menaced by
terrorists.
It’s not that far of a walk to the train station, though they do get delayed for a minute when
Ed sees a parked motorcycle in cherry red that gets him this close to trying to transmute a
camera out of the nearest materials to hand. He needs a photo of this bike. When he gets back
he’s transmuting his own to look just like it. The cars here all look weird but this bike is the
platonic ideal of what all bikes should be, and if Ed were alone he’d be in serious danger
of… borrowing it. He’d give it back. Eventually. Probably.
It’s saved by the presumable owner showing up just as Miss Redhead starts to look like she’ll
risk dragging Ed’s elbow. “I kind of wanna fuck your bike,” Ed tells the guy honestly,
gesturing, then, clocking the bemused incomprehension of Stranger Speaking Foreign At Me,
gesturing more eloquently.
Somebody in the wizard posse squeaks, but the bike guy grins and gestures back, so Ed
winks and waves as he turns back to the train station. The twins and Miss Redhead are giving
him impressed and considering looks while Not A Twin and Smartypants look mortified.
“You can’t do that!” Smartypants hisses, herding them down the station escalator.
“Just did,” Ed says, not interested in trying to figure out which part is sending them into
hysterics. He’s got bigger questions anyway. “When Mustache guy did the translation magic,
does that not transfer? Does he have to do it to both parties for it to work?”
“What?”
“Bike guy couldn’t understand me,” Ed says. “Wait, is it just one language - can you
understand me?” he finishes in Xingese.
“Yes,” she answers, at least now looking more puzzled than embarrassed. “I didn’t recognize
the translation spell but it sounded general. If… the bike person… didn’t understand you then
yes, presumably it has to be applied both ways…”
“That’s fucked up,” Ed says, mentally remanding all translation technical questions to Al. If
he starts thinking about how he got magic done to his mind just for some fucking translation
he’ll backflip off the research pier and not resurface until he has some fucking answers.
“You said it,” Not A Twin mutters.
The train station is dirty but still sleeker than Ed’s used to, even in Central; there’s a lot of
polished metal. Smartypants leads them to a bank of ticket machines and confidently starts
feeding paper bills into one. Ed’s watching with interest and trying to see if he can figure out
if they count in base ten from the denominations when Miss Redhead rounds on everybody
with an impressively determined look on her face. “Let’s go visit hairy.”
Alarmingly, this makes everybody stop and look at each other like what she’d said was let’s
go rob a bank again. And like they’re considering it. “Whoa, what happened to going to the
library?” Ed demands.
“We can go there after,” Miss Redhead says impatiently. “When else are we going to get a
chance like this?”
“We can’t,” Not A Twin says unhappily, everybody totally ignoring Ed.
“Why not? We know where he lives,” Miss Redhead says.
“Only Fred and George can apparate, and we don’t have any brooms or anything,” Not A
Twin says.
“We can take the train,” Smartypants says quietly. “It’ll be a couple hours, but we can do it.
Islington to Surrey’s not that far.”
“Dumbell door said he has protection there,” Not A Twin says doubtfully.
“So? We’re just visiting,” Miss Redhead says sharply. “Besides, you said he had bars on his
windows. You said his uncle had him locked up like an animal. And we haven’t even been
allowed to write to him all summer -”
“Who’s hairy?” Ed interrupts, figuring it’s about time to find out what the fuck kind of
adolescent prison break they’re planning here exactly.
The twins laugh, startled, and Redheads one and two snort in amusement. Smartypants bites
her lip, smiling. “Not hairy,” she says. “Hairy.”
“You just said the same word twice,” Ed says, more resigned to the translation fuckery than
anything at this point.
“Hairy’s our friend,” Smartypants says. “I guess it… sounds like hairy to you.”
“Hairy potter,” Not A Twin says, like it’ll clarify something.
“Hairy potter,” Ed repeats back to him skeptically. “That’s a rough one.”
The twins immediately reel with laughter. “Hairy ceramics professional,” they howl in
tandem, making some passing commuters look around at them.
“Why don’t you just drop me off at the library,” Ed says, not making it a question.
That makes Smartypants go real guilty all of a sudden. “What,” Ed says dangerously.
“I’m sorry, Elric,” she says reluctantly. “Muggle libraries won’t have anything on apparating,
and we can’t access any of the magical ones on our own.”
Ed stares at her. “You mention this now?”
“We’d already all agreed to go to the library before we knew what you were looking for,”
Miss Redhead lawyers instantly, then adds when Ed turns his glare on her, “And we’ll help
you get into the library back at the house when we get back.”
Ed folds his arms. “Try again. I don’t need your help getting in there.”
“Against a house elf? Yeah you do,” she says immediately. “Creature can make the whole
house turn against you, and serious gave him a direct order. He has to keep everyone out no
matter what. He can do a lot of very nasty things to you, just following that order, and he’s
going to remember who kicked him so hard he flew this morning.”
“Yeah? And what are you gonna do about it?” Ed demands. “If this elf is such hot shit.”
“Trick serious into giving him a conflicting order,” Miss Redhead says easily. “Creature
won’t try to stop you on his own, he hates serious. And serious won’t suspect I’m up to
anything at all.”
“It’s true,” Not A Twin says. “Nobody ever expects gin ee to be a right ass.”
Ed considers his options, which are annoying as fuck across the board. Trying to find a
library on his own would take too long, and he suspects not leaving the kids to their own
devices would mean saying fuck it, tying them up with alchemy and bullying them into
giving up a library location. And then dragging them all with him, presumably at this point
bound and gagged. He doesn’t know what librarians here are like but he doubts they’d love
him hauling in five teenagers in DIY prison shackles.
Besides. Ed did, technically, agree to babysit these delinquents, even if he agreed under false
pretenses and as such isn’t bound by the contract in any reasonable court of law. Babysitting
isn’t like other contracts. Kids aren’t something you can ditch, even if they’re scheming
traitorous little wizard spawn.
“All of you owe me big,” he says sharply, interrupting the standard abusive sibling noises
coming from the redhead contingent. “Don’t think I won’t collect.”
“Right,” Miss Redhead says firmly, a girl with no sense of self preservation. “Have we got a
trace on us, Hermione?”
Smartypants frowns. “I can’t trigger the under age magic laws. Fred, George, do you know
the --?”
Most of their words become gibberish at that point, because it increasingly looks like magic
terminology just straight doesn’t translate. Ed, disgusted, turns back to at least have a closer
look at the ticket machine, which makes Smartypants break off and rush over to finish
feeding it bills and collect the spat-out paper tickets. Ed unceremoniously gets one shoved
into his hand and hustled through the turnstiles.
At least their numerical symbols are the same. What Ed’s seen of their alphabet looks like
extremely simplified Old Drachman runes, but it’s reassuring to know math is math. Though
with Ed’s luck here in wizard land they probably fucking use the numbers backwards or
upside down or something equally unconscionable.
It turns out these trains are a metro system like they have in Baozhe, only underground in
tunnels instead of on elevated tracks over the city. When they board the redheads are all
acting like they’ve never fucking set foot outside the house before, staring at everybody and
curiously touching the poles, which is kind of disturbing Ed in a did-these-kids-grow-up-in-acult way. Smartypants alone is acting normal, though if Ed’s reading her face right she’s
embarrassed when she grabs Miss Redhead and Not A Twin and urges everybody to seats in
the very corner of the carriage.
Ed stays standing, hooking his elbow around a pole and looking down at them. Asking a
bunch of teenagers isn’t exactly the best research method, but it’s not like he has other
options right now, and he has no idea how long this ride will be. “What’s with the muggy
born shit? You’re a wizard, but your parents aren’t? Is magic genetic or does wizard not mean
what I think it means?”
All of the kids glance around in what they probably think are extremely casual ways, like
they want to make sure nobody’s looking at them or overhears. It makes them look like
they’re about to conduct some kind of six-way drug deal. “What?” Ed says bluntly, not
looking around. Nobody’s looking at them except the old lady across the aisle on the left of
him and all she’s doing is checking out his ass.
“Muggles don’t know about us,” Miss Redhead says lowly, narrowing her eyes at the lady
behind Ed.
“What, seriously? You are segregated here?” Ed says incredulously. “Are you telling me -
that’s why you’re all acting like we’re about to get copped by the truant officer?”
“Everybody here is a muggle,” Not A Twin says uncomfortably, eyes dodging around.
“They’re not supposed to know about us.”
“Seriously? Like - everybody? This whole train?”
Both twins shrug simultaneously. “Well, yeah. As far as we know. Wizards usually stay away
from muggle spaces.”
“Like what? The metro?”
“Most wizards fly,” Not A Twin mutters. “Or use the flue.”
“Instead of the tube?” Ed says sarcastically.
“Most cities are muggle,” a twin says, shrugging again. “Wizards tend to stick to the
wizarding villages.”
“That’s fucked up,” Ed says frankly. “How do you get anything done? Shit - you said your
parents aren’t wizards. How do you hide that?”
“My parents know,” Smartypants says, mouth turning down slightly. “There’s special
dispensation for parents of muggle born.”
“There’s all these laws in place to make sure muggles don’t find out,” Not A Twin says. “It’s
why we can’t do magic outside of school while we’re underage. It’s called the statute of
secrecy.”
“That sounds seriously fucking unsustainable,” Ed tells him, adding to Miss Redhead, “Quit
staring. It’s public fucking transport, people only start paying attention to you if you start
paying attention to them.”
“How is it over your end, then?” a twin says curiously as Miss Redhead gives him a dirty
look but at least stops her glare match with Ass Grandma. “With… alchemy?”
“Anyone can be an alchemist,” Ed says, then, accuracy forcing him to amend, “just like
anybody can do physics. Some people are naturals, some people take years to understand
really basic shit, some people struggle so much it’s just not worth it. But anyone can learn.”
Not A Twin has his face all scrunched up. “Muggles can do alchemy?”
“I’m not a wizard,” Ed says pointedly.
Smartypants is looking very thoughtful. “Your entire country is Unplottable, though,” she
says, half to herself. “I wonder if that changes things.”
“Still no clue what the fuck that means,” Ed says confidently.
“It means your entire country has spells on it that make it unfindable by muggles,” a twin
says.
Ed seriously fucking doubts that. “We don’t have wizards.”
“What, at all?” Not A Twin says, looking all wide-eyed and upset about it.
“No,” Ed says pointedly. “People know about you guys, but mostly nobody wants to cross
over even just to visit. Now that I’m here I can see why,” he adds under his breath.
Though honestly this metro train’s not bad, and if Ed weren’t here on a job and stuck with
kids he would’ve liked to explore the city. He definitely would’ve liked more time with that
bike and any others like it. Maybe more people would visit if the easiest anomaly crossing
wasn’t in the ass end of Xing.
Not like he’s telling these kids any of that. If they’re living in some kind of crazy secluded
wizard cult they probably can’t handle their worldview upended too much. Ed can’t fucking
imagine how their society runs at all, if they apparently have their own laws and law
enforcement but apparently hardly even enter cities. And the wizard terrorists apparently
target the non-wizards, which, what? When a rogue alchemist goes off the deep end and
starts murdering, it’s a little fucking hard to miss. But hey, if the wizard government is telling
the wizards that the terrorists don’t exist…
Thinking about the utter unsustainability of this system sets a new creeping suspicion to
dredging itself from the depths of Ed’s consciousness. This one’s worse than the ‘maybe the
terrorists are fighting againt slavery’ thing - which he still has to corroborate with an outside
source. “What powers your... magic?” he asks, keeping his tone as neutral as he can. “Where
does the energy come from?”
Smartypants frowns while all the redheads exchange looks and shrug. “Us?” Not A Twin
says. “It comes from inside, mate. From being a wizard.”
“How long do you live? On average,” Ed says, sinking feeling not growing but not lessening
either. Beardy had looked old - but maybe he was forty and had just physically aged. Ed
doesn’t know how much of his own lifespan he knocked off when he used himself as fuel to
heal his little impalement problem back in Briggs, and it hadn’t changed anything in him
physically that he can notice, but that was just once. If wizards are using it all the time...
“Uh, like a hundred fifty?” Not A Twin hazards.
Well that doesn’t fucking sound right. “How do you count years?”
“Three hundred and sixty five days around the sun, mate,” a twin says, bemused. “Why?”
So they live significantly longer than the average citizen of Amestris. Well, good. “If you
don’t know what powers the magic you’re doing, there’s a chance it’s drawing on your own
lifespan,” Ed says shortly. “That doesn’t look like it’s the case here, but it also doesn’t make
me real fuckin’ optimistic about finding out where it does come from. All energy comes from
somewhere. Everything has a cost.”
“What powers alchemy?” Smartypants asks curiously. “Wizard alchemists don’t mention any
energy source - it’s assumed to be an application of magic.”
“Tectonic shift,” Ed says testily. He can’t not explain, but seriously, they have bigger
questions. “Or, if you do it the Xing way, something called the dragon’s pulse that I’m like
sixty percent sure is solar radiation. You seriously don’t know what powers your shit? Who’s
studying it?”
“There’s… some researchers in nor way who study runes,” Smartypants says uncertainly.
“What about universities? What kind of research programs even are there?” Ed demands,
because ‘some guys somewhere looking at runes’ is not what he wants to hear when looking
for peer-reviewed academic investigation.
Now Smartypants looks like she just smelled something really bad and then realized it was
coming from her. “The only wizard ing university I know of is in bang ladesh,” she says
unhappily. “There are specialist academies in France but those are mostly for charms. I don’t
know if they do research.”
It takes a good couple seconds for Ed to fully process what the hell she just said. “One
university?” That can’t be right. “Are we talking about the same thing?” Please let them be
talking about two different things. “Advanced education? The place where people get
degrees? Publications? Research? Holy fuck, how do you people get doctors?”
He is getting real sick of all the whaaaaat? looks they keep exchanging every time he opens
his mouth. “Do you mean healers?” Not A Twin asks dubiously, but Smartypants is shaking
her head.
“Doctors like my parents are doctors,” she says, frowning at the redheads. “Are there medical
programs for wizards? Centralized ones?”
“Healers do apprenticeships,” Miss Redhead says, eyeing Smartypants dubiously like she’s
the one who’s spewing the crazy talk.
“Holy fucking gods,” Ed marvels. “It’s - you’re in the fucking dark ages. Segregated, not
even living in cities, no centralized medical research - no fucking wonder you don’t know
where magic comes from! It’s a fucking miracle you’re all even alive! What’s your infant
mortality rate? Are you even vaccinated?”
“The whole where does magic come from thing is really bothering you,” Not A Twin
observes.
Ed’s eyes maybe bug a little. “Bothering me?” he demands. “You mean it isn’t bothering
you? You don’t know where your ‘magic’ comes from. Teleporting something is not fucking
cheap, do you understand me? You’re disassembling down to the molecular level, in seconds,
and then traveling and re-forming, perfectly. Just storing that information - your shape, your
mind - even for just a second! Is prohibitively expensive in energy cost. If the cost is coming
from inside you, then each of you is a walking goddamn bomb, and we run right up against
the hardware limits on human biology on that one. Either you’re a different species than I am,
a different kind of human with a different structure on the molecular level, or your energy is
retrieved through you, not from you. From somewhere else. Most likely fucking hypothesis is
door number fucking two, and you don’t know where that door goes.”
Now they’re all looking at him like he’s the guy in the town square that likes to share his
personal views on being abducted by aliens at top volume to random passerby. “I don’t think
you need to worry too hard about that, mate,” a twin says, like he’s humoring Ed. "People
have been doing magic for hundreds of years and nothing bad's happened.”
“Oh, you have proof of that, do you? How do you know you aren’t exploding babies on the
other side of the world or something?”
"I... think people would have noticed reports of exploding babies,” Miss Redhead says
carefully, after a short silence.
“It doesn’t have to be literal,” Ed growls. “My point is, you don’t know. In alchemy, there is
no ‘I did it but I don’t know how’. If you don’t know how, it doesn’t work, and thank fuck for
that because it keeps the total nightmare scenarios out of the hands of most of the freaks
who’d pull that trigger with a smile. And if you’re doing shit like healing - do you know how
badly a normal doctor can fuck you up if they don’t know what they’re doing? And you want
to add magic?”
There’s a lot of wall-eyed looks going around the entire train car now, not just on the kids. Ed
needs to calm down. He’s gonna give himself a heart attack and die and then Al is gonna
have to cross over here and burn this entire wizard hell to the ground and doing that will
make him sad, so Ed needs to calm down. He’s yelling at a bunch of kids on the train about
how they don’t understand magic. There’s not a lot of ways to go from here but most of them
are up.
Ed exhales hard through his nose and pulls himself together. “Just - never fucking mind.
Which one’s our fuckin’ stop?”
Chapter End Notes
I figure hermione, as the nerd kid of two dentists, would definitely have been to the
Wellcome Library
Chapter 5
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
They get out in another residential area, the yards around these row houses slightly bigger
and the flowerbeds significantly fancier. Smartypants goes and talks to the station booth
attendant for a minute, then comes back and strides off confidently across the street and into a
park.
Naturally, they get wildly lost within the first five minutes.
Ed can admit that every street and every house here looks almost freakishly identical, but he’s
not feeling too charitable about losing daylight when there’s actual shit he could be doing.
There’s not even anything he can do besides pointedly suggesting they go back to the station
and ask the attendant to draw them a map. It’s not like he knows this area or can even fucking
speak to anyone without more translation magic.
He trails along behind the kiddy platoon, disgruntled and planning to do something about it.
This hairy guy they’re visiting is going to graciously donate some of his magic shit to Ed’s
experimental design cause so he can actually have something to show for an otherwise
wasted day. ‘Wizards are crazy, have no idea how their own magic works’ is not the kind of
promising intel he set out to gather, and it probably means his and Al’s research paper is
going to be groundbreaking in the most annoying sense of the word: no references, no peer
research, just the two of them and their intellectual pickaxes, breaking the fucking ground.
That means a lot of face time with wizards, and that’s gonna mean dealing with their fucking
slavery problem.
One thing at a time. First terrorists, then fucked up not-really-chimera slavery.
Ed really needs to think through the magic bullshit, though. He’s got no idea what the limits
are, given that teleportation is apparently common enough that teenagers are doing it. Magic
isn’t permanent, apparently, but there doesn’t seem to be any equivalent exchange going on at
all. How is teleporting impermanent? The effect happens and stays happened. The energy
involved has to be massive… or the wizards have some way to cheat. Something that cuts the
cost or displaces it or otherwise allows them to do really intense shit without breaking the
generator, so to speak.
And there’s a chance here that whatever the wizards are doing with souls can bypass the Gate
- which is both good and bad, because it’s possible their way doesn’t require a blood toll,
which would mean there’s no toll to un- do that shit, either.
Unfortunately, if it doesn’t have a toll, then it’s way the fuck easier to do.
Ed can’t explain the Gate. Equivalent exchange breaks down there completely. His arm for
Al’s soul - that doesn’t, didn’t and will never make any kind of sense. How is that
equivalent? But he can understand what will send an alchemist to the Gate, and it has a
pattern of effects: knowledge and ability gained, body parts lost. If that’s as far as he can get
with ‘magic’ - just being able to describe the patterns it works in, the ripples it creates on the
world - then he can work with that.
He grimaces. Dealing with the terrorists is going to involve a lot of this kind of quick and
dirty surface-level bullshit, he can just fucking tell. Ed hates the term generalist with a
fucking passion and his annual State Alchemist assessment always brings the rant to the
forefront, because that’s his official category of all things and while okay, yeah, he gets why
that’s so it’s only because he keeps getting thrown into the kind of situations that give him no
choice but to expand breadth and sacrifice in-depth understanding.
Not that he doesn’t understand. And figuring shit out on the fly is kind of his whole
wheelhouse. But generalists are people who dabble, and Ed does not fucking dabble. Ed
crushes it.
And once the fuck again he’s gonna have to crush it in annoyingly short timeline - ASAP,
before the terrorists decide to strike again - and without Al, which is just depressing. If shit
gets any more annoying Ed is gonna bully Mustang into bringing Al over as a research
consultant anyway, danger or no.
“Elric!”
“What!” Ed snaps. Miss Redhead is waving a hand in his face. “The fuck you want?”
“We’re lost,” she says sourly.
“I fucking noticed,” Ed says impatiently. They’re back in a park again, and Ed’s pretty sure
it’s the one they started in. “What do you want me to do about it? I told you to go ask that
station attendant again.”
“We’re splitting up to search for the right street,” Miss Redhead says, pointedly ignoring him
and turning to point at the park entrance. “You and me and Hermione go this way, Fred and
George and run go there. We’ll meet up at -”
She stops, mouth open, staring, then blindly grabs for Smartypants’ arm. “Is that - look!”
She takes off towards the playground without waiting for a reply. “Hairy!” she shouts,
waving her arm, and the other kids take off after her, only the twins having the dignity to
walk.
Miss Redhead’s running right at some kid sitting on the swingset of a playground. Ed
mooches after them, pinching the bridge of his nose. New Kid is even darker than Ed, hair
short but going everywhere the way Al’s does when he sleeps on it wet, and he’s wearing a
giant pair of glasses that look like they routinely endure cycles in a particularly bitter laundry
machine. He looks utterly gobsmacked to see them all, and when he leaps up off the swings
Ed’s not proud of how disgruntled he feels that they’re more or less the same height.
“Hairy!” Smartypants cries, throwing herself at him. “We were looking all over for you!”
New Kid’s face, visible through Smartypants’ hair, does a series of things that imply he is
both happy and fucking furious about this. Naturally, he expresses this by yelling.
Ed, predictably, can’t understand a fucking word. He sighs, sits down on the vacant swing,
pulls out his notebook and starts recording the hypotheses and “results” of his interrupted
magic-alchemy experiment this morning, adding his observations of the air shimmers.
He’s interrupted barely a minute later, when New Kid’s ranting turns his way as he waves his
arm at Ed and says what’s probably, and who the fuck is this asshole?
“That’s Elric,” Smartypants says. “Elric, this is Hairy.”
Ed grunts and gets back to his notebook. Hairy the New Kid says something sharp, then
sharper. “He’s not,” Smartypants says defensively. “He’s from the Unplottables. Right,
Elric?”
“I can’t understand anything he’s saying,” Ed says, bored. “Translation magic has to go both
ways, remember?”
“Oh,” Smartypants says as Hairy glances down at him in surprise. “Right. He… was asking if
you work for dumbell door.”
Ed snorts. “What, Beardy the schoolteacher? Mister oooh we can’t kill lord woogie boogie
because there’s a prophecy?” Gods, that would be worse than Mustang. At least Mustang has
a brain. “Like fuck. I feel bad for whatever students have shit enough luck to end up in his
classes.”
Not A Twin makes a choked noise and both twins give Ed identical delighted grins.
Smartypants, however, frowns deep. “What prophecy?”
“Beardy kept going on about how some prophecy is why they haven’t just assassinated your
lord fuckaroni motherfucker. Says it’ll just let him go possess people.”
Not A Twin, Smartypants and Miss Redhead all exchange dire looks at that, but the twins’
eyebrows just bounce up at Ed. “You don’t believe him?”
“It’s horseshit,” Ed says frankly. “You can’t just have a free floating soul. If they aren’t bound
to something they disappear from the plane. As for splitting it - how would that even work?”
Though even as he says it he’s forcibly reminded of Amestris’ very own lord fuckaroni, who
had extracted parts of himself in the form of homunculi and turned those loose on the world.
Ed would argue that those were not parts of his soul - if he even had one - just the warped
versions of existing souls from the Xerxians he’d absorbed into himself. They weren’t
aspects of his personality just because he named them Lust and Greed and Envy and said
they were. Ed is strongly of the opinion that anything claimed by psychopaths messing with
souls and murder just to get some immortality should be taken with a grain of salt. Or a
whole canister.
However. It might be - technically - possible that wizard lord macaroni has done something
similar.
“He can definitely possess people,” Miss Redhead says grimly.
“What was the prophecy?” Not A Twin demands, looming over Ed.
“How the fuck should I know?” Ed sticks his notebook back in his jacket and stands, dusting
himself off as he pointedly ignores the way his eye level is somewhere around Not A Twin’s
chin. “I highly doubt there even fucking is one. Beardy might believe whatever some
crackpot psychic told him and decided it meant something about some special way to kill
your lord macaroni, but that’s got nothing to do with me.”
Hairy chooses this moment to interject in the kind of tone people use for sentences that end
pretty exclusively in “bitch”. “Oh! Sorry, Hairy,” Smartypants says. “Here, I’ll - translate.
Fred, George, are you sure you can’t try professor loop inns spell?”
They devolve into magic talk again. Ed takes the moment to consider taking the prophecy
seriously, then scoffs and shakes himself. Beardy hadn’t said bullets won’t work; he’d
straight up admitted that he hadn’t tried sniper fire because he didn’t have a sniper. Mustang
does have a sniper, and if she discovers her skillset is not applicable in that particular way
then they’ll just move on to the next thing. If lord fettucine does turn out to have been
making homunculi then Ed’ll just corner them in some bunker and tell Mustang to let his
little pyromaniac hands have a fucking field day.
Something about the thought rings hollow. Ed frowns to himself. It feels a little like when
he’s testing theoretics with Al, when an equation looks right at first glance but on deeper
examination has something pretty damningly wrong with it. This theory got proven, though.
They proved it pretty fucking definitively, what with the whole Promised Day motherfuckery
bullshit circus. Mustang can kill homunculi even without Ed’s help; he torched Lust into a
greasy cloud of ash particles and nearly did the same to Envy. Even if the terrorists are
fucking around with human transmutation and binding souls, it’s quite literally nothing they
haven’t dealt with before.
Why does he feel like this isn’t going to work.
Well, he did just waste the entire day traipsing around with a bunch of bickering idiot brats
who are apparently quite certain that their entire society is a cultivar of morons. They’re all
using a power they don’t understand and don’t want to understand, the whole wizard thing is
sounding more and more like some kind of isolationist cult whose internal rivalries have
started to spill over and claim collateral in a body count of normal people. Oh, and they have
slavery. Which Ed is going to have to deal with, fucking hell, he doesn’t fucking want to.
Everywhere he goes people are always, always doing horrible, awful shit to each other, and it
doesn’t stop, it doesn’t change, it’s fucking intrinsic. It’s built the fuck in. No matter what he
does there’ll always be more.
Why bother anyway.
For a second Ed feels like the two halves of his brain have separated, because he - doesn’t
think that. That can’t have been him thinking it, feeling it. The Elrics don’t do despair. You
always keep walking. You always get up.
The hairs rise in a wave on his neck and arms.
He whirls around, scanning the park. Nothing. Fear uncoils in his gut, and that’s wrong too.
Exposure to the Gate has recalibrated Ed’s adrenaline triggers to the point where most things
that really should trip his fear reflexes don’t, and this - feels - wrong. He knows his fear. He
knows when it comes from his body or from his mind, he knows what it does to him, what it
makes him think or say or do. None of this is right.
The kids’ voices sound muted. Cold seeps into his body like laudanum, the automail port in
his thigh starting to pulse and then throb with a heavy, insidious ache. Ed steps sharply away
from the kids, trying to listen to his senses, figure out what the fuck it is. It’s afternoon now,
getting late, the sun sliding down and shadows growing between the trees. It was warm
during the day but now the temperature’s dropping, the smells changing, the air going still.
This is not a summer evening anymore.
Something’s moving not quite right on the other side of the park.
Something very, very basic in Ed is telling him he does not want to know. He keeps going
anyway, slowing down but not stopping. Not until he sees what it is. Two shadows are
drifting towards him, too tall, too unnatural looking. The air is warping around them; they
aren’t walking. They aren’t touching the ground. Not human.
Ed backs up a step, then another, then gets his freezing body under control and backpedals it
to the kids, unable to take his eyes off those - things. “Yo,” he says hoarsely, throat sticking.
He tries again. “We gotta go. Now. Get the fuck out of here -” where would they even go? “-
get back to the train station.” You got lost on the way here, they’ll never find it in time. “Run.”
You’ll just lead those things to other people.
“What?” Smartypants says. “What are you - Elric? Are you alright?”
“Can’t you feel that?” Ed rasps. He has to swallow and cough, his entire mouth dry and
uncooperative. “Can’t you see it? We have to go,” he presses, which is when another teen
comes around a tree and into Ed’s peripheral vision, stumbling to a halt and looking shocked
when he sees them. “Fucking get out of here,” Ed snarls, jerking his arm at all of them.
“Look! You fucking see those things?”
They look. “Oh, no,” Smartypants says in a tiny, wavering voice.
That does not sound good. “What the fuck are those things?”
It’s Not A Twin who answers, breath hissing between his teeth, but the word he says is
gibberish, doesn’t translate at all. All the kids are staring now, frozen, watching the things
glide closer.
Ed has to move now. They don’t have time for fucking taxonomy discussions. He risks a
glance around and sees an underpass tunnel in the bank leading up to the road behind them,
off to the left. He grabs Smartypants by the arm and stabs a finger at it, feeling like he’s
wading through snowmelt. “There. Take everybody. Go,” he snaps, because some shelter is
better than none and if he can bottleneck those things maybe he can trap them.
For a second the new guy that came out of the trees looks like he’s gonna bolt in the opposite
direction, but Ed doesn’t fucking have time for that and grabs him, shoving him hard towards
the tunnel. The guy stumbles into a run, the other kids glancing back fearfully, too fucking
slow, and Ed has to turn his back on those floating things and chase the kids like a sheepdog,
shoving them faster, yanking up Hairy when he nearly falls. “Take him,” Ed snaps at the
twins, shoving Hairy between them, and to their credit they grab an arm each and keep the
kid moving, on his feet as they hit the underpass and pound down the concrete walkway.
Ed leaves off his harrying and spins around, bracing. The things are at the mouth of the
tunnel now, and it takes him precious half seconds too long to realize when he stopped the
kids fucking stopped too. “What are you doing? Get out of here!”
The twins are white-faced and Hairy’s still slung between them but they have their sticks out,
Miss Redhead fumbling for hers. “We can’t -”
“You can call for help, you fucking idiots! Get moving! If you stop fucking running I’ll kick
your ass! Go!”
“Elric -”
“I said run.” Ed jerks a throwing knife from the sheaths along his spine and hurls it full force
at the closer of the things. The knife sinks in right under where a man’s clavicle would be,
dead on target, and disappears.
The thing doesn’t even slow down. A horrible dry rattling sound starts up, like the shake of a
rattlesnake’s corpse. Not human, not fully corporeal. Ed can’t feel his fingertips anymore.
Projectiles are out. Hand to hand, out. One of the kids yells something, and silvery mist
shoots past Ed and battens to one of the advancing things.
That does stop it - but only for a moment. The rattling sound intensifies and the silver mist
wavers and dissolves. When it dies somebody behind Ed lets out a small gasp, almost a sob.
The dark things start to move again, leisurely, slow. Predators that know the prey can’t outrun
them. They drift into the mouth of the underpass, and something in Ed knows like it knows
gravity that if those things close with them they’re dead.
For a second the array just - won’t come, and that bewilders and infuriates Ed so fucking hard
that it burns the slush from his brain. The equations snap into focus and he claps, drops to a
crouch and rams a wall of earth across the tunnel, blocking those things off with cement and
dirt a meter thick. Another clap extends the tunnel outwards towards the things and seals off
the other end, and Ed’s doing it blind so he makes that wall even thicker. The aching cold and
fear lessen noticeably -
- but not enough.
Some dirt crumbles off the middle of Ed’s wall. Then some more. Ed backs up sharply, the
kids scrambling behind him. It doesn’t stop. The wall doesn’t buckle but it’s - disintegrating.
Something from the other side is making a crack. What the fuck are these things.
Alchemy can’t stop them. Ed can’t stop them. There’s nothing he can do. He’s going to die
here, he’s gonna watch these kids die, and Al’s going to be alone.
The rage may be late in coming, but when it hits it’s like being submerged in pure mercury.
Ed claps and smacks the wall and the tunnel squeezes like an automail fist, merging, melting
into itself to form a smooth inner shell with no cracks, no crannies, no escape. Nowhere for
the fear to ooze through. There’s iron oxide in the ground, and aluminum, not a lot but
enough, and Ed forces a temperature variable into his active array to channel the exothermic
discharge from the surging rock and shoves it through the transmuted thermite, until he can
feel the reaction take, until the waves of heat from the rock start to crisp the sweat on his
face.
And then he grinds, harder, hotter, smaller, closing the space, smaller than a car, smaller than
a coffin, smaller than a fucking shoebox. He twists the sides of the asphalt oven into each
other until they meet, until the pervading sense of wrongness is gone and the you can’t you
can’t you can’t is just a dwindling echo down the back of his spine.
His breath shudders on the exhale, and when he claps again he more or less has to crouch and
touch the ground due to his knees choosing now to get an inconvenient case of the jellies. It’s
a good thing he has to put more or less his entire focus into containing the thermite reaction
he started inside the now-fused lump of earths and metals that used to be the tunnel, because
directing tricky temperature variables is a good way to redirect the adrenaline. He knows
damn well what a bad flashback day feels like, and being dropped unexpectedly into the
middle of one is highly fucking suboptimal.
He just killed those two things. They better have not been some kind of - of wizard
chimeras.
Ed grits his teeth. He’ll deal. He bleeds off the excess heat, diluting it through something like
a couple hundred meters of dirt, then levers himself up again and turns to check on the kids.
All the pasty ones look extra pale, and Smartypants and Hairy don’t look very steady on their
feet either, grabbing onto each others’ arms for support between the twins. “You guys okay?
What the fuck were those things?”
They glance at each other and then Smartypants says something to him, only it’s gibberish
again. “Names don’t translate,” Ed says, too tired to put enough bite into it.
The nonsense that comes out of Smartypants’ mouth is longer this time, a full sentence. Ed
stares blankly for a full five seconds before any implications process. “You understand me at
all?” he tries, and she shakes her head a little helplessly, saying something back.
Whatever translation magic Mustache did is clearly gone now. “Fantastic,” Ed sighs. His
knees still feel unstable, which is bullshit considering the metal one shouldn’t even be able to
feel anything. “You good? Everybody okay?”
Gesturing gets his point across, and everybody’s nodding until Miss Redhead gasps and their
little crowd parts to reveal the new kid who’d almost bolted, sprawled out behind them on the
ground. Ed swears and pushes past to roll him over, checking his pulse; fast but not weak,
breathing okay, eyes moving under his eyelids. No bruising or swelling or scrapes on his
head; probably didn’t hit it when he fell. Looks like he just passed out. Thank fuck.
“He’s fine,” Ed says brusquely to Hairy, who’d scrambled over to kneel beside the kid almost
when Ed did. “If he doesn’t wake up in a minute we’ll carry him to the doctor.”
Hairy seems to understand, or at least recognize the all clear military handsign Ed waves
over the prone kid’s body. “Call for help,” Ed says, twisting around to look at the rest of the
kids and miming a phone to his ear. “Or however you fuckers do it. Send your magic ghost
shark messengers. All of you need a doctor.”
And Ed needs some translation magic pronto, because he highly fucking doubts that what just
happened is normal for sleepy little public parks, even if they are in wizard world. Those
floating things had gone right for them.
Smartypants, at least, has recognized the phone call gesture. She makes it back at him, saying
something, then points at the passed out kid and makes some gestures that Ed interprets as we
should all go. Smart girl: they have no idea if any more of those things are on the loose out
here.
Ed considers the state of his knees, then the utterly limp state of this enormous fucking
teenager. He considers transmuting a wheelbarrow. He considers transmuting the kid into a
wheelbarrow. He growls, hauls the kid up into a fireman carry and manages not to stagger
only by the grace of his automail. “Where fucking to?” he demands of Smartypants, who’s
looking at him with her mouth open.
She seems to get it, at least, because she says something to Hairy and Hairy starts leading
them out, sending a lot of glances back at Ed. Ed scowls back at him, which is helped quite
naturally by the billion fucking kilos of teenager on his neck. Nobody’s producing any magic
ghost sharks, so telephone it is. Do these kids care about the stupid law so fucking much that
they won’t even use magic to call their parents when they’ve just been attacked by fucking
fear ghost demon thingies?
Ed’s about to try and bully them into calling via sharkphone despite the language barrier
when the chump on his back starts flailing, so Ed drops the guy on his feet and steps away
smartly. This kid does not look happy to see any of them, eyes wild and spooked, and he
immediately starts shouting. Hairy shouts back. The kids all start arguing again.
They’re in the road now, under streetlights and with no sign of that creeping aura of poisoned
fear. Ed sighs hugely, cracks his back, neck and both sets of knuckles - that’ll never get old -
and trudges to the street intersection to look for a telephone booth. He’ll probably have to go
back to the tunnel later and see about cleanup, but right now he’s got to get these kids
somewhere safe. Mustang’s gonna want a corpse, which is gonna be tough fucking shit for
him given that what Ed did basically buried those things alive and then ground them down to
powder at the nice toasty temperature of approximately five thousand degrees.
His stomach rolls. He swallows hard and ignores it. Those things weren’t human, and they
were coming after kids. It’s a good thing he turned them into roasted charcoal ghost biscuits.
But that unnatural fear had pushed Ed to the edge so fast and so hard it’s still making his head
spin, and he went straight for the lethal option on the count of two, the second he saw his
walls didn’t work. He never fucking does that.
There aren’t any phone booths in sight. Ed stomps back to the knot of kids, who are, surprise,
still yelling. Ed sticks two fingers in his mouth and whistles the way Teacher taught him.
“Can you all fucking cool it for five seconds?” he demands as they all cringe away from the
noise. “We need to go. Gooo. Awaaaay. From heeere,” he enunciates, walking two fingers
across his palm and waving demonstratively. “And call. Your. Parents.” Ed stabs a finger at
Smartypants’ magic stick, then makes the hand-phone gesture again. “Or hell, one of you
teleport back to that hell house and bring them back here, tell ‘em to bring a flowerpot -”
Something big and white swoops out of the darkness, going straight for the kids, and Ed
nearly lunges for it before he realizes it’s a bird and it’s landing on Hairy’s arm. “Head wig!”
he exclaims joyously at it - and it’s an owl, a giant fucking white one bigger than Hairy’s
entire head.
This is apparently the last straw for the giant teenager Ed carried, because he yells a string of
panicked syllables and takes off into the night. Hairy shouts after him, but doesn’t make any
moves to follow. Or do much of anything besides pet his owl. Ed’s torn between leaving this
pack of pubescent idiots alone and going after the running kid with who the fuck knows what
still out there, but the departing running feet don’t go all that far before they end in the
distinctive fumble and slam of a house door.
Ed decides that stranger kid just made his way home and is no longer his problem. “Okay,
now we really need to get this freakshow out of here,” he grunts. “That kid’s probably calling
the cops. Let’s go,” he orders, and without any better options starts pushing them towards the
train station they came from what feels like ten years ago. God fucking help them if they
don’t allow birds on the train.
Chapter End Notes
mrs figg and her spy cats on the other side of the tunnel, running around tryna figure out
what the SHIT happened: o fuc o fuc o fuccc
Chapter 6
Hairy handles the question of “can owls be on the metro” by the subtle technique of hiding it
under his shirt. Ed would’ve expected screaming, hooting, flying feathers and
disembowelment, but the owl seems absolutely fuckin’ fine with being stuffed under the kid’s
clothes, so he decides it’s not a problem until it becomes one. Smartypants gets them all
tickets again and they get on the train, huddling in a corner again amidst the crowd of
evening commuters.
The kids are all subdued, and while the whispering and staring is annoying it’s better than the
yelling. Ed puts his back to the wall, hooks his automail foot in the corner seat rail and settles
in for a long ride. There’s no way in fuck he’s falling asleep on this train, so he digs out his
notebook and gets to writing up what happened even though his whole body feels like beaten
lead.
Smartypants unsubtly, if timidly, tries to see what he’s writing, but it’s not like she can
fucking read Amestrisan, let alone Ed’s code. “Rude,” Ed tells her anyway, too tired for
venom, but it’s not like she can understand that either. She shrinks back anyway, and Ed
pinches his nose irritably and thinks all over again about how these kids need some real first
aid. Nobody’s exhibiting signs of outright shock, but if Ed with all his practice is feeling the
adrenaline backwash of the worst artificially induced prolonged panic attack of his life then
these kids are arguably feeling worse.
Nothing he can do right now, though. They disembark the train without incident, Hairy
walking in the middle of the group with his hands awkwardly cupped at his waistline to keep
his damn owl pregnancy supported. Ed would probably find it hilarious if he didn’t feel like a
wet sock.
When they step out of the station they pass a food cart covered in pictures of rice and meat,
and when the smell rolls over Ed his stomach reaches down directly into his legs and stops
him dead in the street. “I need this,” Ed says, basically to himself since it’s not like either
vendor or wizards can understand him, and turns to Smartypants.
“Money,” he asks, rubbing his fingers together in what is hopefully the universal sign of cash.
“I’ll pay you back.” Or, realistically, Mustang will. “I can share or whatever, I just need to eat
now or go totally bugfuck on you all in like eight seconds.”
The are you fucking serious? look she gives him isn’t exactly welcome, but it’s better than
the shockiness and side-eyeing. “My calorie intake is insane, okay? I do alchemy with
automail,” Ed says sourly anyway, turning to the vendor, smiling in a way he hopes looks at
least twenty percent sane and sticking a finger at the nearest picture of meat platter. “Please.”
Vendor guy gets it, at least, and Smartypants has no choice but to dig out more money, and
the guy’s just piling rice into a container when running footsteps come thundering towards
them. “Gin ee! Ron!”
Everybody swings around, Hairy’s owl pregnancy flapping wildly and making him dance in
place. Ed very nearly claps before he recognizes balding redhead guy from this morning,
running at them with an unfamiliar pink-haired lady in tow. Ed’s pushed out of the way - and
critically, away from the food - as they all stampede around the cart and into the lee of two
buildings, and they all start gabbling at each other like they’d just crossed a warzone, not
exited a metro tunnel.
Though it would be an appropriate reaction if a bunch of your kids had just had a run-in with
fear-generating floating nightmare monsters.
Ed would really like to have a talk about that, but of course nobody bothers redoing any
translation magic. He’s this close to transmuting all their shoes to the street so that he can at
least push past and get his fucking dinner when the balding redhead guy says something at
him, grabs his arm and teleports.
It is not any better than the flowerpot. Ed staggers out of the quantum inbetween whatever
and immediately reverses Baldy’s grip on his arm, using it to snake up to his collar and bend
him practically double, face to face with Ed. “Try that again,” Ed says, letting his tone do the
translating for him, “and lose your fucking hand.”
He shoves Baldy back and lets go, leaving him making offended fish noises as Ed does his
360. They’re back outside the magic house, and Breakfast Lady is in the middle of barreling
out of it, redhead ponytail guy on her heels. There’s a lot of screeching coming from that
direction, and as balding redhead grabs both twins by the shoulders and starts using them as a
moving blockade to push everyone inside Ed decides he’s had enough of being shoved
around and skips on ahead of them.
There are more strangers in the doorway, but Ed just pushes past them with the single-minded
goal of getting to the goddamn kitchen. Literally everyone is yelling, but Ed doesn’t give a
shit because he can’t understand any of it and also Mustang’s just showed up at the end of the
hallway, raising his eyebrows and smirking like a crocodile.
“Fucking you,” Ed growls, stalking over, hands flexing. “You just ditched me here, without
no translation rock, food, or money -”
“And the house is still standing! Congratulations,” Mustang says warmly, the fucking
asshole. “We’ve got those buns you wanted.”
Mustang is gonna die in the most painful way Ed can think of, just as soon as he’s finished
eating. “Where,” Ed snarls, and Mustang laughs and leads the way to one of the sitting
rooms. There are people in Amestrisan blue in there, but all Ed sees is the open wax paper
package on the table and the glorious, glorious assortment of steamed dumplings, scallion
cakes and buns.
He’s on dumpling number fifteen and bun number nine when external stimuli start registering
again. “Eeeeeeedwaaaaard,” a familiar voice carols, as if sensing this, and Ed blinks stupidly
at the bun in his hand as though that’ll check it for hallucinogens. He could’ve just sworn he
heard Hughes.
It’s not a hallucination. Hughes is very much here, in full uniform and grinning like a demon.
Ed jabs a bun at him. “What are you doing here?”
Hughes drops down on the couch next to Ed, slinging a heavy arm around his shoulders. “I
hear you made two of my darling analysts cry, Edward! All because of a gap in a background
information dossier! How could I let such a devastating oversight stand? Of course I rushed
to fix it.”
Oh, no. “I said I was sorry!” Ed says, trying not to cringe under the arm. “And they were
probably crying because they had to research something as stupid as wizards , not ‘cause of
me!”
“Oh, of course, of course! I’m sure it was all just a big misunderstanding.” Hughes’ eyes
glint behind his glasses, his grin promising days of filing bitch work. “But now we do have
good solid intel, right from a source on the ground - you’ve been here a whole day, haven’t
you? Surely you’ve got the lay of the land. Why don’t you share with us?”
Ed glances around the room. Mustang’s shut the door, and Havoc and Hawkeye are here too,
their own packs open and a makeshift command center arrayed on the furniture. Hughes
didn’t come alone either: Ed recognizes Jones, whose relaxation hobby is roof running, and
Arget, who probably dreams in coded radio frequency. No wonder Ed got dumplings and
buns. Mustang is so much less of a bastard with Hughes around, except for when they team
up to be extra double bastards together. Which, after several years Ed has learned Hawkeye is
also in on, even if her involvement is merely sitting back, watching and doing nothing to stop
them.
In this particular wolf chase, though, Ed has plenty of wizards to throw off the sled. “This
fucking place,” he growls, throwing his chopsticks down, “is a shitshow. Teleporting
flowerpots! Sentient paintings! Elf slavery! Oh, and they think I’m a werewolf.”
“Elves?” Havoc says.
“Werewolf?” Hughes says.
“Goodness,” Mustang says, mouth twitching. “All that in less than twelve hours.”
“This place is fucking cuckoo,” Ed snarls. “They fucking teleport and they don’t know how
they teleport, they - straight up don’t know what the power source is! For anything! They
don’t know where their energy comes from. And they’re all - just - crazy. Yes, elves - little
fucking… fake chimera… non-human people are enslaved, for housework! And whatever the
fuck attacked us in the park was a crime against nature.”
“Attacked?” Mustang says, entire face sharpening.
“I handled it,” Ed snaps. “I don’t know what they fuck they were, ask the wizards. I don’t
have any bodies for you.” Abruptly exhaustion crashes over him in a wave, and he rakes his
tangled hair out of his face, pushing away the plate of dumplings to stand up. “Fuck this shit.
You’re getting your report tomorrow.” The room doesn’t have any other couches, but there
are two matching overstuffed armchairs in the corner that can do.
Ed strides over, claps, grabs an armchair in either hand and forcibly drags the two together as
they alchemize into one astonishingly ugly couch. He’s flopping onto it before the last of the
transmutation discharge dissipates, then, anticipating the bitching, sits up, digs out his
notebook and throws it at Mustang’s head.
Mustang, annoyingly, catches it. “Don’t wake me up even if the house is on fire,” Ed warns,
settling back with his arms crossed and his eyes already closing. “‘Cause I know it’ll have
been you who started it. ‘Night.”
Chapter 7
Arrays are easy to read if you know what you’re doing, and Ed sure as fuck knows what he’s
doing, only this one is just not fucking cooperating. He’s got to figure it out soon - he’s on a
deadline, he’s too close to something, he thinks maybe he can hear a train whistle
somewhere, coming on fast. He can do fast. “Al,” he says, come look at this, because when
he doesn’t know Al knows, and Al’s there but Ed can’t make out what he’s saying. “What?”
Ed tries to ask, only this array is unraveling as he looks at it, only his hands are on it and it’s
lighting up anyway and he doesn’t know what it does, fuck that’s bad, that’s really bad,
fuckfuckfuck Al’s gonna kill him.
“Fullmetal,” Al says, censorious, but his voice is all wrong. Ed turns to give him a weird look
only he can’t seem to move right, his neck stuck, his head stuck, he can’t even see where Al
is. A dry, ghostly rattling starts up all around. “Al,” Ed tries to say, teeth gritted, trying to get
away. He has to move. He has to go, he has to get Al away from here. “Al,” he tries again,
trying to push off, everything’s dark now, only his arm is - cold, so fucking cold, the way
only metal can be, and when he looks down it’s bolts and plates and carbon fiber again.
“Fullmetal.” And it’s unraveling. It’s dissolving straight into the Gate, blood sluicing from his
open shoulder, he has to act now or he won’t be able to ever, why is it always his
motherfucking arm -
“Fullmetal!”
Ed goes to clap only something grabs his wrists, hard, wrenching his hands apart, he’s flat on
his back? What? What the fuck?
“Fullmetal,” Mustang grinds, and Ed realizes he’s staring at Mustang upside down. The
bastard’s leaning over him. Mustang’s the one holding his hands apart, and his face is going
red like that because Ed’s currently choking him with his legs.
“Shit,” Ed says, uncrossing his legs and unbending from where he’d kicked up over his own
head to trap Mustang. “Reflex.”
“I figured,” Mustang says, letting go of his wrists in return and straightening up. “I apologize
for startling you, but transmuting the house down in your sleep is something we can’t afford
right now.”
“That wasn’t a startle,” Ed grumbles, sitting up and shaking his wrists out. How the fuck is
he so sore.
“Oh, my mistake. I apologize for interrupting the rehearsal of your Wrestlers of Amestris AllStars audition,” Mustang says, rolling his eyes as he fixes the crumpled collar of his uniform.
Ed tries, unsuccessfully, to rub the moldy upholstery feel off his face. He’s got the cold
adrenaline jitters of a low-grade nightmare, and the way he’d woken up makes it pretty
goddamn obvious that everyone in the room saw, but shit, they’re all soldiers and it’s not like
Ed hasn’t done worse in public. Not the first time Mustang’s had to shake him out of a bad
time on a couch either, only usually it’s the one in his office. It was weird for like the first
three times and then just turned into another thing they bitch over.
Besides, these days Ed can appreciate the restorative powers of a joke. “Don’t pretend you
wouldn’t pay to see me beat the shit out of guys in a leotard,” he mutters, smearing his palms
down his face. Both flesh, great.
“I’m going to go ahead and refer that statement to my press office. Press?”
“No comment,” Hughes says promptly. “Unless, of course, Security has any input.
Security?”
“Security can neither confirm nor deny any statements from the General’s office, nor
comment on any investigations currently ongoing,” Hawkeye says, tone and expression
totally dead inside. “On an unrelated note, Security would like it to be known that the color
vote for the leotard came out black, not red, and urges the citizenry to remain calm in the face
of this difficult decision. Citizens?”
“How did you do that with your legs?” Arget blurts, red to the roots of her hair.
“What? Oh.” Ed, distracted by alchemizing the gross couch dust off his jacket and shoving it
back on again, takes a second to parse that. “It’s not that hard. Buy me dinner and I’ll
demonstrate.”
“Seven thirty, Golden Butcher, next Friday,” Jones says instantly.
“Shit, you wanna know that bad?” Ed glances over in surprise and finds Jones sitting bolt
upright and practically sparkling and Mustang and Hughes both staring at the ceiling with
their fuckfuckfuck I can’t laugh mouth-biting eye-scrunching faces on, because they know
that just ‘cause Ed lets them get away with talking shit these days doesn’t mean he won’t
transmute their briefs to the outside of their pants if they cross a line.
“Congrats, my next three weeks of lunches are on you,” Ed informs them. Hawkeye dips her
head like yeah, that’s fair while Mustang and Hughes keep on struggling with their garbage
faces. Havoc alone is innocent in the corner, pointedly shaking his head. “All three of you.
But make sure bastard pays more. You deserve a lot more suffering than some sleep
choking,” Ed growls, stabbing a finger at a now unapologetically grinning Mustang. “And
you know what? You can start paying now. C’mere, your men requested a live fuckin’ demo
-”
“I’m going to have to refrain from participating in any demos until Jones also buys me
dinner,” Mustang says. It’s Jones’ turn to go red. “And they happen to be Hughes’ men, so
please direct all recreational choking to him. In the meantime - I need a debrief from you,
Fullmetal.”
“I just woke the fuck up.”
“And we’ve all been working half the night and all of this morning,” Mustang says, sweet as
arsenic. “At what point will you feel able to join us?”
Motherfucker. “Give a guy five fucking minutes to brush his teeth, damn,” Ed grumbles,
trying to flip his braid out of where it’s stuck in his jacket collar and finding it a snarled mess.
“Where’s the toilet in this shithole?”
“Third door down the hall, on your left,” Mustang says. “Do try to avoid the natives if you
can. They’re very excited about your little field trip yesterday and I’d prefer you didn’t rile
them up further with your diplomatic prowess.”
“They can’t fucking understand what I say anyway,” Ed says dismissively. “They did some
magic about it yesterday morning but it wore out right after we got attacked.”
“Ah yes, that reminds me,” Mustang says, taking a rock out of his pocket and tossing it to Ed.
“All yours. They’ve got a radius of about six meters but I’d operate under the assumption that
anyone you’re speaking with has their own.”
Blah blah, don’t assume you can talk secrets just because the wizards don’t speak
Amestrisan. “Yeah, whatever, I know the fuckin’ drill,” Ed says sourly, sticking it in his back
pocket. “These fucking things are glitchy as hell. Are you also hearing that guy introduce
himself as dumbell door?”
Mustang’s mouth twitches. “Yes. And… moody.”
“I assume ‘fuck’ translates directly, otherwise none of them would have understood anything
Edward has said so far,” Hughes says brightly.
Ed has to bark a laugh as he imagines the wizards hearing something like fornication! every
time he says fuck. The deeper implications are less funny, though. “Whatever it runs on is
doing translation by affecting our brains, I’m pretty sure,” he tells Hughes and his Intel pair,
who all exchange glances and then simultaneously pull out notebooks. “I don’t love that we
have no idea how it works. Love even less that the wizards probably don’t either. Only upside
is whatever it’s doing to us it’s doing to them too, because I can’t imagine it working
differently to give them Amestrisan. Oh - it takes Xingese too, it honestly might translate
whatever. Any language. Any code, maybe, if spoken verbally. Wild, huh?”
“That is not just a… that is a very complex underpinning system,” Hughes says, frowning at
Ed. “That is… oh, I really don’t love that.”
“Welcome to wizards,” Ed tells him, having handed the problem off, and waves over his
shoulder as he pushes out the door to find the crapper. A shower is probably out of the
question, especially if the bathroom is as thoroughly fucking disgusting as the rest of this
house, but he really hopes that they at least have working flush toilets.
Chapter 8
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The bathroom - on this floor at least - is cleaner than anything else Ed’s seen so far, and the
water runs clear out of the tap and doesn’t feel compositionally out of whack when he sticks
his hand into it and pokes around for the elements. No metals leeching in from the pipes, at
least. That’s objectively good, but it does mean the wizards don’t even have widespread lead
poisoning to excuse their culture.
There’s just a sink and a toilet - not that Ed would trust a shower in this house in any case - so
he has to make do with splashing his face clean and briefly transmuting a metal comb out of
his left bracer. Al has expressly forbidden him from trying to shave with alchemy - “That’s
practically human transmutation, brother” - and his pack is in whatever room he’d gotten
dropped off in the first night, so he just has to deal with annoyingly patchy stubble and furry
mouth feel until he can dig out his toothbrush and razor. He hates having stubble. He would
already be rocking a beard just for the sheer convenience if not for the fact that any facial hair
whatsoever would make him a dead ringer for Hohenheim.
Ed sighs and pushes out of the bathroom, heading upstairs as quietly as he can to retrieve his
pack. It occurs to him for the first time that he might want to be concerned: he always seals
and traps his pack alchemically when leaving it anywhere, but who knows what kind of shit
wizards might have to bypass that. He can only hope nobody here is the snooping type.
Naturally, the second he enters the upstairs hallway he hears voices coming from the closed
door of what had been his room. Judging by the sounds, it’s all the teenagers. “Are we sure
he’s not a werewolf?” That’s Not A Twin.
“Professor loop inn said he’s not,” comes Miss Redhead’s voice. “I figure he would know.”
“Who the hell is he, though,” says a twin. “He chucked a knife at that dementer. And then he
did wandless magic like it was nothing.”
Ed scowls on automatic, because they’re talking about him and also just reminded him that he
lost a knife to those fucking things. Teacher gave him those knives; he can’t just transmute a
replacement for the set. She’d fucking know. He also probably shouldn’t fucking go in there,
given Mustang’s warning. Ed does not want to deal with people freaking at him before
coffee.
He fucking wants his razor, though. He scowls harder at the door. “I don’t think he even has a
wand,” Miss Redhead is saying. “He just clapped, and the whole underpass did - that.”
“Is that what he meant about being a particle acceleration?” a twin says in fascination. “When
we asked about alchemy?”
“I don’t know,” comes Smartypants’ voice, sounding frustrated. “There aren’t that many
alchemy books available in the library, but what I read mentioned it’s a different kind of
process than magic. It didn’t say anything about things like - what he did.”
“Yeah, I thought alchemy was all about rune circles and trying to make lead into gold and
stuff. Did you hear loop inn and shackle bolt talking? They said he destroyed those
dementers. They said they couldn’t even find a trace, and they had to pull that whole place
apart to set it back to rights -”
“And the way he can feel us apparating when we’re close? Never heard of that. What the hell
is vaccinated anyway?”
“He was talking about how magic could be powered by your life . Anybody else find that
worrying?” Not A Twin says. “And the way he dresses - he’s elbow deep in the dark arts, bet
you anything.”
Miss Redhead scoffs. “Just because someone’s good looking and wears leather pants doesn’t
mean they’re dark, thick head, bill wears leather pants -”
“Yeah, but bill’s not violent.” One of the twins again. “When serious laughed at creature
yesterday - mate, he looked like he was going to punch serious.”
“And you can’t say life-draining magic isn’t dark, gin. Whatever he did to that dementer, that
sure as hell wasn’t a patron us -”
“He said he’s not a wizard! He’s an alchemist.”
“Yeah, and what’s that mean?”
“Alchemy can be used to make stable, unsupported constructs, that endure beyond the span
of mortal man,” Smartypants’ voice comes, quieter, with a cadence like she’s repeating
something she heard, or read. “Hairy… what if lor- what if you know who… is that how he
brought himself back? Did he transmute… you said he made himself a body. You said it
wasn’t a spell, it looked like a ritual -”
“He made a body?” Ed says sharply, shoving the door in, because that plus the way she’s
talking makes it sound like eyewitness fucking testimony. “Someone saw it? Who was
there?”
There’s a lot of sputtering and a couple of squeaks, all the kids jerking around like he beat the
door in with a battering ram. Half of them are sitting on his goddamn bed, with their shoes
on. They all stare at him with some impressively guilty faces, though again Miss Redhead
recovers first. “Were you eavesdropping?”
“It’s my fucking room,” Ed informs her, taking the opportunity to stride over and drag his
pack out from under the bed. No obvious signs of tampering, and the kids all look pretty
surprised to even see it come out from under there. “Who saw the body being made?”
The twins and assorted redheads all exchange looks, but Hairy just glares and Smartypants
lifts her chin. “Hairy did. He saw it all.”
“You saw it?” Ed says to him, looking him up and down. In daylight he looks even skinnier
and grungier than before, absolutely drowning in his shirt. At least his pet owl is nowhere in
sight to complete the crazy scarecrow look. He looks maybe fourteen.
He’s also scowling belligerently but not denying it, so Ed snaps his fingers at him and
beckons to the door, shouldering his pack. “Downstairs, let’s go.”
“Why?” Hairy says suspiciously.
“‘Cause congrats, you just won yourself an interview with my CO.”
“The one you said is a cock?” Miss Redhead says instantly.
“Yeah, him.” The alarmed looks between the kids make Ed add, “Relax, he doesn’t bite
unless you can take it.” Mustang’s not gonna be an asshole to a teenage civilian witness, not
without a reason.
This does not seem to reassure anybody. “Why?” Hairy repeats, now even more suspicious.
Ed rolls his eyes. “Why do you think? You’re what we in the business call eyewitness
testimony , pal . What the fuck were you even doing, to end up seeing that shit live?”
Hairy’s whole face shuts down. “You think I wanted to?”
“I don’t know your life,” Ed tells him frankly. “We met fucking yesterday.”
“I got kidnapped,” Hairy snaps. “Wasn’t exactly a party invite I could decline.”
Great, so this kid’s fourteen-year-old luck is just as bad as Ed’s was. “Well, all you have to do
is tell us all about this party and then we can leave you the fuck alone. Come on.”
Hairy must see in Ed’s face that Ed is more than ready to drag him, because he hunches his
shoulders belligerently and steps to. “We’re coming with you,” Smartypants says instantly,
hopping off the bed, and once again Ed’s surrounded by wizard puberty. He resists the urge to
bat them all away and stomps off back to the stairs.
Of course, some guy in a black dress and a face like a pickled lemon is in the hall down there,
and Hairy stops dead behind Ed when he sees him. This causes a minor pileup, which makes
the lemon guy turn and narrow his eyes at them in blatant distaste. “Who’s this guy?” Ed
asks, not stopping his clomp down the stairs. He’s gotten every permutation and intensity of
that look over the years and this guy is hitting like, maybe a 0.43.
“I could ask you the very same question,” Lemons asks him in a soft, I’m-a-big-scary voice,
his eyes traveling up and down Ed’s body like he’s watching the dying moments of a
thoroughly salted slug.
“Could you? Huh. Figured if you were important you’d have been introduced to me already,”
Ed tells him. One of the kids makes a high-pitched hneek? noise up there. “Yo, Hairy, move
your ass, we don’t have all day.”
Lemons doesn’t like that at all, but it gets the kids moving down the stairs again - and before
Lemons can open his mouth again Mustache appears at the other end of the hallway, Psycho
right behind him. “Elric,” Mustache says, spotting him, not sounding super happy about it.
Fucking likewise. “What?” Ed says. “Actually, it’ll have to wait, kinda in the middle of
something here.”
“In the middle of what,” Psycho demands, breaking off his glare at Lemons to look all
alarmed at Ed.
“A fucking beauty pageant, can’t you tell? Come on, Hairy.”
“Hairy?” Psycho says, looking nonplussed, then snaps his gaze to the kid. “Wait - Hairy?
What the hell do you want with him?”
“He says he saw your lord alfredo person’s resurrection in real time,” Ed says, with patience
he really does not have. “So we’re going to fucking talk to him. You know, talking? Why are
all y’all acting like I’m waving the fucking thumbscrews?”
Mustache and Psycho, if anything, look even more alarmed. “We may not have time for that,”
Mustache says to Hairy in a fuck, I gotta stall voice, glancing between Lemons, Hairy and
Ed. “You may have to be moved back to your aunt and uncle’s house -”
This makes Hairy turn on Mustache with a look of shocked betrayal and immediately sends
the redhead kids up in arms. “Why?” Not A Twin demands. “He’s already here, why would
we send him back -”
“Dementers came after him, mate,” a twin says, sounding genuinely shocked. “You can’t
expect muggles to -”
“His cousin said they’d lock him up,” Miss Redhead cuts in venomously. “We all heard him.
Does nobody care that they had bloody bars on his windows? And you want to sent him back
there?”
Naturally this fucking brouhaha brings Mustang and Hawkeye both into the hallway,
Mustang glancing at Lemons and then Mustache and Psycho before giving Ed a you had one
job, Fullmetal look. “The kid fucking saw it!” Ed protests, waving his arm at Hairy, which at
least gets the kids to shut up. “He said he saw the resurrection process, forgive me if I thought
we might like to hear about that.”
Mustang and Hawkeye’s eyes snap to Hairy. “Is that so,” Mustang says. “We haven’t yet
made your acquaintance, Mr…?”
It takes Hairy a second to realize Mustang is talking to him, then he goes all startled and
suspicious again. Smart kid. “I’m Hairy potter,” he says tersely.
Mustang, admirably, doesn’t so much as blink. “A pleasure,” he says, indistinguishable from
someone who means it. “I’m General Roy Mustang of Amestris, and these are Colonel
Hawkeye and Lieutenant Colonel Elric, whose charms I see you have already experienced
firsthand.”
To Hairy’s credit, he doesn’t immediately fall at Mustang’s feet and offer up anything
Mustang wants on a silver platter; Ed always finds it a relief to run across another person
who’s immune to the charm. “Why do you need to know?”
Mustang smiles, unperturbed. “We were asked to lend our assistance to your… death eater
problem. Right now we’re gathering information. We’d like to hear what you have to say
about what it is you saw.”
Hairy glances back, at Mustache and Psycho, who immediately steps forward and puts a hand
on Hairy’s shoulder. “We should wait until dumbell door arrives, Hairy,” Mustache tells him,
and he’s talking to the kid but watching Ed. “Then we can all speak together. We don’t have
enough information right now to make any decisions.”
Mustang doesn’t fail to notice how Mustache is eyeing them like they’re a bucket of
nitroglycerin on a particularly wobbly skateboard. “I see,” he says. “We were to meet with
Albus today in any case - why don’t we all have our discussion then?”
Ed opens his mouth to protest the total waste of time - if there was human transmutation
going on then the sooner they get the whole story the better - but Mustang gives him a
cooling look. “I still don’t have your report, Fullmetal,” he says, gesturing to the open door of
the side room and doing the thing where he shuts off Mustache and Lemons and Psycho like
they don’t even exist. “Colonel - why don’t your men set up in the dining room? There’s
more table space there,” he adds to Hughes, leaning in and beckoning to Jones and Arget.
“Captain Havoc can assist them with the equipment assembly while we take the report.”
“What an excellent idea,” Hughes says, waving Jones and Arget to dance to Mustang’s tune,
and if they don’t hear the silent orders then at least Havoc knows to make sure nobody
whisks their eyewitness away before they can talk to him. “It was getting too close in that
room with so many people. Here, let me help you with the radios!”
Hughes ushers them off through the hall, giving everyone no choice but to scatter, and
Mustang allows Mustache and the others back into existence long enough to smile and
dismiss them. “Apologies for the confusion. Do let us know if we’re needed.” He jerks his
head at Ed. “In, Fullmetal.”
Ed makes sure Mustang can read promised retribution off his face as he passes, because he
only pulls this Sit, Stay, Roll Over shit when he wants to convince people that he’s got Ed
firmly on a leash. Mustang gives him a just work with me, Fullmetal right back, which is
better than a keep your mouth shut or a holy fucking gods, Edward but still won’t save him
from Ed transmuting his fucking pants pink.
Chapter End Notes
Ed’s wrong about being a dead ringer for ol’ Hoho. Unfortunately for ed, tho, it’s
because what he inherited from trisha were the massive dead anime mom eyes
Chapter 9
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Alright already,,” Ed snaps as Mustang heads back to the couch and Hughes slips back in,
closing the door behind him. Ed stomps over to his couch, kicking it closer to the coffee table
and flumping down; the faint smell of yesterday’s Xingese takes the time to inform him that
he’s so ravenous the sensation has started to transmute into nausea. “Keep treating me like
I’m rabid and they’ll decide I really am.”
“So! Why do they think you’re a werewolf?” Hughes asks brightly. “I really hope the answer
is not ‘because I’ve been biting people’.”
Ed’s about to answer that exclusively in swear words when Mustang holds out a piled-high
noodle box in his line of sight and immediately destabilizes all existing thought processes.
“You fuckin’ cheater,” Ed says to Mustang some moments later, muffled on account of a full
mouth. The noodles are cold and clearly from yesterday but they taste like fucking paradise.
“Just saving us all some time,” Mustang says sweetly. “As much as we all love your tantrums
we don’t quite have the room for a full performance today.”
Ed eyes Mustang, then Hughes, then Mustang again, chewing and absently giving Mustang
the middle finger as they settle on the couches. Through the lens of calories and sleep it’s
pretty obvious what’s going on here. Mustang’s been given an opportunity to scope out a
quantity wholly unknown to most of Amestris and evaluate it for potential - friend or foe,
threat or tool or both. Hawkeye’s here because Mustang’s not allowed to take a shit without
his handler, but Hughes is here on rare field assignment to ensure Mustang gets accurate,
detailed and confidential field reports on the wizards in real time.
And to lay the groundwork for whatever Mustang decides to do with them, because it’s not
like there’s anybody here to stop him. Certainly not the wizards themselves.
Ed narrows his eyes and wipes his mouth on the back of his wrist. “You meet with their cop
lady yet?”
“We did,” Mustang says, watching him right back. “She defers to the schoolteacher, at least
in regards to the alleged resurrection and subsequent terrorist activity. There isn’t much they
can offer that isn’t fourteen years out of date. The official stance of the government is that the
target is still dead and his followers in prison.”
“We requested access to records,” Hughes says lightly. “Which we’re very unlikely to get,
and the vigilantes don’t keep written files. They’ve tailed some individuals who are either
former terrorists since acquitted or suspected to be affiliates, but so far have nothing that they
don’t see as part of their normal routines. Or at least, nothing they’ve chosen to share.”
“So we seriously don’t know what the fuck is going on,” Ed concludes.
“The director seems genuine, and believes there is a clear and present threat,” Mustang says.
“And she and the vigilantes both are very concerned about the attack last night.” His mouth
curls slightly, less a smile than a ghost of a sneer. “Though they seemed more concerned
about what you did than the fact that five of their children nearly died.”
“I fucking noticed.” Ed’s right hand slowly curls and uncurls from its fist, his skin missing
the leather of his black gloves. “What the fuck were those things?”
“I’d like your observations first, if you please. You’ll understand if I say I don’t find their
intel the most reliable.”
Ed snorts despite himself. “Yeah, no fucking kidding. You want the whole day?”
Mustang inclines his head, crossing one leg over the other and stretching an arm along the
couch back. “Why not. Take me through it.”
Ed takes him through it. “Those things showed up minutes after we met the hairy kid at the
park,” he concludes. “Fucking… floating nightmare fear monsters. Everybody froze up, and
then some other random kid showed up - I don’t know, just some civilian walking home or
whatever - and I had to chase them all into an underpass to get them to get the fuck away
from those things. They were definitely after us, though. Came on in a straight shot.”
Mustang does not look happy with this. “‘Floating nightmare fear monsters’?”
“If you see something like a tall rattling ghost in a black nightshirt, torch it,” Ed says, serious.
“Don’t hesitate. I felt them across the entire park, nearly a hundred meters, and they were
already messing with my head by the time I noticed. Those things are…” He has to stop, jaw
working, examining the sensations on a fresh night’s sleep. “They felt like the Gate, almost.
But. Wrong.”
“I spoke to one of wizards about them yesterday,” Hughes says, eyes serious. “The one who’s
a professor. They’re called dementers. They do project fear, and the closer they get the more
it affects you and the harder it is to get away. You get stuck reliving your worst memories and
you can’t move. He also said they drain the… ‘magic’, and if they get close enough to touch
you they can, and I quote, eat your soul.”
For a second Ed has a very clear picture of one of those fucking things bending down to Al -
Al as he had been, all metal - and breaking his blood rune, sucking out his soul. Then he
shakes himself. Al’s back in his body, and if any fucking two-bit floating zombie tried to eat
his brother’s soul Ed would shove his arm down its throat to the shoulder and rip it right back
out of whatever passed for its stomach.
“I see,” Mustang says, eyeing Hughes, then Ed. “Thermite works?”
“Thermite works,” Ed agrees, mouth pulling down. “After I dropped the underpass on ‘em
and squeezed.”
“Temperature?”
“Like twenty-two hundred Kelvin. You can hit that with oxyhydro no problem.”
“You think heat alone sufficed?”
Ed rolls his shoulders, uncomfortable and scowling about it. “It was fucking thermite. Are we
expecting shit to survive that?”
“The wizards believe these things to be unkillable,” Mustang informs him, just this side of
bland.
Ed snorts. “Yeah, well, they also believe in prophecy, so, y’know, I’m not gonna worry real
hard on that one.”
Mustang inclines his head like yeah, true. “What do we have to worry about?”
“They can all teleport,” Ed says instantly. “Not just with flowerpots, they can all do it.
There’s an age restriction but that’s legal only.”
Hughes and Mustang stare at him. Hawkeye, across the room, stops cleaning her sidearm.
“All of them?”
“Yeah. Independently. No equipment, no external catalyst or power source I can see,” Ed
says. “Those twins do it all the fucking time. I’m working on how to track it but so far I can
only do it up close. Like too close. I have no fucking clue what kind of sensory data I’m
getting for that but it’s something.”
Mustang fishes out Ed’s notebook from his jacket and holds it up. “Radiation?”
“Gotta be,” Ed says. “There’s some kind of particle exchange going on - hey, about that.” Ed
glances around the room, craning to look behind his alchemized couch, but there’s nothing in
here with that telltale shimmer. “Never mind, remind me to make you hold a painting later. I
asked the kids about it, but they don’t know what ‘magic’ is or where it comes from and
couldn’t say if anybody was even looking into that shit. They’ve only heard of one university.
Ever. One.”
Ed holds up one helpful finger to demonstrate. “So there isn’t even any existing research I
can cop. Wait. Hughes! You said there’s a professor?”
“From the school those teenagers go to,” Hughes informs him. Ed droops. “Ages eleven to
seventeen. Which is apparently the sole magical school in the entire country.” He holds up
one single finger back at Ed, solemn.
Ed droops further. “That’s just not fuckin’ right. Fuck. So I gotta start from scratch,
motherfucker, rip it open from there. Wish I had Al.”
Mustang looks vaguely sympathetic for a moment, which fulfills his quota for the rest of the
year and doesn’t last longer than it takes for him to glance back down to Ed’s notebook. “If
there’s visible emissions -”
“Then I can measure it, yeah, I know, I just can’t fucking get a lock on what’s being emitted,
from what, and how. I mean, fucking wood and paint - ugh. Whatever. Some component of
the magic emits something and once I crack that we can get lord carbonara pretty quick.”
“Oh?” Hughes says.
“Yep. They’ve got a slave here - that’s the fuckin’ elf shit I was talking about. They’ve all
confirmed that if they free him he’s going to run straight to their death lord to sell them all
out, and it sounds like the terrorists are gonna want to hear what he has to say. It’d be a
straight tail job if it wasn’t for the fucking teleporting.”
“I assume that by writing ELF????, circling it twice and drawing an arrow linking it to
TELEFUCKPORTATION you meant that the elf can do it too,” Mustang says, delicately
turning a page in Ed’s notebook.
“Yuh-huh. Apparently they have a magic library in the house, but the psycho with the prison
hair won’t let me in - hey, you know they’re segregated here? I was gonna go find a normal
fucking library but apparently all the city ones don’t even know about magic because nobody
in the city does either. The wizards are hiding . Mustang, this place is a fucking cult.”
“I can’t say I overly disagree with your assessment,” Mustang says. “How did you learn that
the potter boy witnessed the alleged resurrection process?”
“Overheard ‘em,” Ed says. “When I went upstairs to get my pack. The kid says he was
kidnapped and saw it all. Here’s hoping he saw anything fuckin’ useful.”
“You told the schoolteacher resurrection was not impossible,” Mustang says, closing Ed’s
notebook and fixing him with a look. “Not impossible for you, not impossible for alchemists,
or not impossible for anyone?”
Ed grimaces. “I got no fucking clue if wizards have to deal with the Gate. Since they
apparently have enough raw available energy to teleport, I can’t rule out that they can do shit
that’s only possible with, you know.” Ed gestures, meaning the philosopher’s stones, and
Mustang and Hughes both nod. “If he had a soul - already attached to this plane the way, you
know -” Ed gestures again, encapsulating how Al’s and the Slicer brothers’ souls had been
bound to armor, and they nod again “- and then built a flesh body, and bound the soul to
that…”
“And this lord of theirs sounds like a prime contender for someone who doesn’t care about
using other people’s lives as fuel,” Mustang says.
Ed flexes his right hand. “So even if they do deal with the Gate, it might not even matter.”
Which means that the resurrection thing has moved up a couple of pretty big percentage
points in probability. Which means Ed can’t just discard Beardy’s babbling about lord
macaroni splitting his soul as senile wizard horseshit.
If the prophecy turns out to also not be horseshit Ed’s giving it all up and going to live naked
on top of a mountain with all the other nutty hermit monks in Xing.
“We don’t know anything for certain until we talk to the kid,” Ed says decisively. “If he can
describe what they did - mentioned it looked like a ritual, for once in my life I hope to fuck
that means religious shit and not an array - I can figure out what the fuck’s going on.”
“If the schoolteacher is correct about that particular soul having been… split,” Mustang says,
like a housemaid picking up a dead mouse, “do we expect any significant change in our
approach to resolving the situation?”
Ed looks up, meeting Mustang’s gaze head on. “This guy’s really not going to prison, is he.
Or his dead eaters.”
There’s no sympathy this time in Mustang’s eyes, but there is understanding. “He ran
unchecked for nearly thirty years in this society,” he says. “It took one of his own attacks
backfiring to neutralize him. The authorities are either incompetent, corrupt or simply do not
have the resources to cope. A successful incarceration under these circumstances… no,
Fullmetal. He is not.”
“Then no. No, you can just fuckin’ torch ‘em,” Ed says, jaw tightening. He flexes his hands
into fists. “If the soul’s anchored, breaking the anchor knocks him right outta here. If he’s
some kinda homunculus style construct, well, you and me got a track record with that kind of
problem. If the guy never died at all, well.” Ed feels his mouth twist bitterly. “Then he’s just a
guy.”
Mustang looks over to Hawkeye, who raises an eyebrow back at him, hands not pausing in
the reassembly of her third pistol. “No harm in trying the traditional methods first.”
“Yes sir.”
“What’s your range with what you have with you? I don’t want us getting any closer than we
absolutely must, with so many unknowns regarding their ‘magic’. With teleportation already
involved our best chance is surprise from a distance.”
“Two to four hundred meters, sir.”
“Mm. It’ll be me on point, then.” Mustang sighs, flips Ed’s notebook shut and hands it back
to Ed. “What was that about making me hold a painting?”
Chapter End Notes
Ive decided amestris uses kelvin temp scale bc why not. Ignore that ed used fahrenheit
like 2 chapters ago, im probs gonna go back in later and fix it
Chapter 10
Chapter Notes
i dont know science. if u do know science come correct me
See the end of the chapter for more notes
Ed leads the way to the room full of paintings, which opens onto the room Hughes and the
Intel babies have set up in. They look up inquisitively as they enter, and Ed pauses in the
doorway and turns to Hawkeye. “Don’t shoot.”
“How reassuring,” Mustang says dryly.
“Relax, I just need to control group test something. Havoc will be holding it next.”
“You once booby-trapped all of Havoc’s pens to spray fluorescent ink on contact,” Mustang
points out. “He was mauve for weeks.”
“Yeah? And?”
“Saying you’ll do whatever it is to Havoc as well is not reassuring, Fullmetal.”
Ed grins nastily. “You’ll just have to take your chances, won’t you?” He goes straight for the
original painting he’d picked up, and the dog lord guy is snoozing again under his tree but
wakes up real quick when Ed reaches for the frame. A look of abject horror blooms on the
guy’s face as he scrambles up, his dogs going nuts instantly. “You! Back, you wretch, you
crossbred moor!”
All the other freaky paintings wake up and go wild at this, shouting about unclean peasants
and demon-worshipping heresy. Ed grins even more nastily at Dog Guy as he unhooks the
painting from the wall. “You just sit tight, sweet cheeks,” Ed tells him, turning back to
Mustang and Hawkeye - who does in fact have her pistol out, even if it’s pointed at the
ground. “It’s cool, I figure if they could do anything bad they would’ve done it the first time I
did this,” Ed tells her. He hands the painting to Mustang. “Here - fucking hold it, bastard, it’s
for science. Describe it. Physical observations only.”
“Dung-hearted mongrel! Dishonorous cur!”
Mustang’s eyebrows are in danger of crawling so high they end up on the back of his head.
“Well, my ears are telling me I’m being yelled at by a painting.”
“Yo, shut the fuck up for a second,” Ed tells the goddamn dogs guy. “You think I’m bad, this
bastard’s worse, you piss him off too bad he’ll light your ass up.”
Mustang narrows his eyes all scary-like at the painting, which isn’t his actual targeting face
but does make people think it is. The painted people seem no different. “I must protest this
most unseemly handling of my person,” Dog Guy declares, but at a much more cautious
volume.
“Yeah, yeah, just shut up for a second. Mustang, physical observation. Tell me.”
Mustang weighs the canvas in his hands, eyeing the little painted figures warily. The dogs
have quieted from yaps to whines. “I’m assuming I’m looking for anything that doesn’t
signify this is an ordinary painting.” His frown grows slowly. “There’s… a sensation similar
to weak electrical current.”
“Yes!” Ed nearly punches the air. “What else?”
“These are the emissions you noticed,” Mustang realizes, then pauses. “Edward. Am I
holding a man’s bound soul?”
“They swear up and down it isn’t, but again, what the fuck do they know,” Ed says. “I don’t
see a binding rune, the guy seems thrilled to be a paint chunk, and somehow they got two
fucking dogs in there with him. I’m going with a solid maybe. Finish the observation.”
Mustang sighs all put-upon, but he peels off one glove and sets his bare hand to the frame.
“No heat,” he notes, just as Psycho skids into the room and nearly gets himself perforated by
Hawkeye, on edge from the noise with sidearm still in hand. “Will you stop fucking with the
house!” Psycho bellows at Ed, not even noticing Hawkeye lowering her gun again.
“Why? Scared what else we’ll find out, slaver?” Ed shoots back.
“For the love of - I didn’t want creature! I’d free him if I could!”
“But in the meantime you’ll just make his life miserable, huh?”
“Serious,” Mustache says warningly, turning up in the doorway behind Psycho.
“What! They’re riling everything up, is it too much to ask for some god damned peace and
quiet -”
Mustang sighs again and hands the painting back to Ed. “Nothing else out of the ordinary,”
he tells him, then turns to the arguing wizards, pulling his glove back on. “Gentlemen, is
there a problem?”
“Many things in this house are not safe to handle,” Mustache says swiftly. “You’ve had good
luck so far, but even some of the paintings are cursed -”
“You’ll get your damned hands burned off if you go around touching whatever takes your
fancy,” Psycho says rudely. “And that’s if you’re lucky. And when you bother the damned
portraits, they wake up and start yelling -”
“We haven’t been able to go through and secure everything,” Mustache says. “Some of these
curses are very dark. If you get hurt we can’t guarantee we’ll be able to help you.”
“So put up a fucking warning sign on what is dangerous,” Ed says, incredulous. “If it’s all so
fucking ‘cursed’ you need to warn people. You have kids in this house.”
“They know not to touch anything,” Psycho snaps, “unlike some people -”
“We’re conducting some noninvasive testing that will help us more effectively locate your
terrorists,” Mustang says coolly. “Is anything in these two rooms unsafe to touch?”
“No,” Psycho admits grudgingly, glaring daggers at Ed.
“Then for the time being we will confine our testing to here. Is there anything further we can
help you with, gentlemen?”
“No,” Mustache says, taking Psycho’s shoulder and firmly pushing them along. “No, thank
you for understanding. We’ll be right down the hall if you need us.”
“Making warning stickers, I hope,” Ed says under his breath, glaring at Psycho right back
until he’s dragged out of view.
“For us or for them?” Havoc says from behind them.
“Havoc! Hold this,” Ed says, turning and thrusting out the painting.
“Passed from swine to swine like a barnyard wench,” huffs Dogs Guy from the canvas.
Havoc’s eyes go wide. “Boss?”
“Just hold it,” Ed says coaxingly, sticking the painting into Havoc’s chest. "It doesn't hurt a
bit."
“Boss, I say this with all due respect, no fucking way,” Havoc says nervously.
“You know, technically I outrank you,” Ed points out, advancing as Havoc backs up. “This
can be an ‘order from your superior officer’ type of thing.”
Havoc looks desperately to Mustang. “Chief?”
“Hold the painting, soldier,” Mustang says, not bothering to look. “ You are interviewing the
boy as soon as the schoolteacher arrives. Be here,” he warns Ed.
“Sure, uh huh,” Ed says, forcing the painting into Havoc’s protesting grip. “Stop being a big
baby and tell me what you feel.”
“Disturbed,” Havoc says weakly, clutching the frame by its very edges and holding it as far
from himself as possible. “And in real bad need of a smoke.”
“You just went for a cig break,” Ed tells him mercilessly as Mustang and Hawkeye waft off
to go be annoying and inscrutable somewhere else. “You were out for like twenty minutes.”
“I feel like this warrants another one,” Havoc says miserably. “What am I supposed to be
feeling?”
“Anything,” Ed says. “Anything physical. Describe the sensations.”
Havoc looks down at the painting, cringing slightly when Dogs Guy glares back. “Bad.”
“Havoc.”
“...wood-y?”
“It’ll do. Anything else?”
“Please let me put this down, boss.”
Ed grins and slaps Havoc’s shoulder as he takes back the painting. “You’ll never be a man of
science with that attitude, Jean.”
“A fact I thank my luck stars for every day, boss.”
“Wimp,” Ed says cheerfully as he hefts the painting, notes the presence of both shimmer and
tingle and then turns to the rest of the room. “Who’s next?”
He makes Hughes hold it, then Jones and Arget, though since they were in the room when Ed
explained his expected outcome they don’t strictly qualify as control groups. None of them
feel anything, or see anything, which is about what Ed expected, but it’s good to have loose
confirmation anyway; if only they had an alchemist who’d never seen the Gate, he’d have all
he needs for a working theory.
“Now I just need to measure it,” Ed says, recording the results in his notebook, rough as they
are. “Anyone got a radio they don’t need?”
“Oh, that reminds me. Maybe this will help,” Hughes says, waving for Jones to drag over one
of their giant overstuffed field packs and open it to show Ed the path to paradise.
“Alphonse made some alterations to our spare radio equipment when we stopped by in
Guangshi,” Hughes says. “He said you might find it helpful.”
“Oh my god, we do have telepathy,” Ed whispers, lifting out a voltmeter. “It just only
activates for science. I fucking love you, Al.”
“I’ll leave you to it, then,” Hughes says, sounding pleased.
“Uh huh,” Ed says absently. Along with the voltmeter Al made him a bolometer, a
magnetometer, and a triaxial EMF reader with a matching spectrum analyzer. He was pretty
obviously thinking about about how they might analyze the grey shimmering wall of the
border crossing anomaly, which translates fantastically to the measurements Ed needs to take
for the magic emissions. The experiments are gonna be more quick and dirty shit by
necessity, but it’s not like he’s looking for super exact data right now - so long as it’s accurate
it doesn’t have to be precise.
Al’s alchemized a little raised smiling kitty face on the side of the spectrum analyzer casing,
with good luck!! written in Xingese glyphs underneath it. Ed grins to himself, fistbumps the
cat face and sets to work.
He’s only just laid everything out, decided on experimental conditions and set Jones to
drafting tables to record the results - Hughes took Arget and left, saying something about
padding their dossiers - when he sees Smartypants lurking in the doorway. “What?” Ed says.
“Is doorbell guy here already?”
“Um… I don’t think so,” she says cautiously, entering. “What are you doing?”
Ed snorts. “Figuring your shit out for you.”
“Is that a voltmeter?”
Ed pauses and gives her another look. Maybe they’re not so backward if they at least know of
voltmeters, but then that begs the question of why then haven’t they used them. “Yeah.”
“You’re measuring… oh. Magic makes most muggle technology short out,” Smartypants
says, looking up from the table of tools apologetically.
What, seriously? “Why?” Ed asks.
Smartypants looks deeply unhappy with this question. “Nobody really knows.”
“Lucky for you that I’m here, then,” Ed says decisively. If it does short anything out that’ll be
a strong indicator of a fluctuating electromagnetic field, and Ed can just fix the equipment,
set up a Faraday cage and run it all again. “None of the radios have shorted out yet, so the
field must be pretty weak anyway.”
Jones glances at Smartypants and holds up a sheet of ruler-straight tables for Ed. “What next,
boss?”
“Thanks. Can you hook these up to the batteries? Don’t turn anything on yet.” Ed takes the
sheet and starts labeling, starting with the EM spectrum in ascending order of frequency;
might as well be thorough and start testing with radio waves.
Smartypants drifts closer, once again unsubtly trying to see what Ed’s writing, like maybe
overnight Ed might’ve started writing in her language instead of his. “Your name’s
Edward?”
“Oh boy,” Jones says.
“What?” Ed says, glancing up at him.
“Nothing. Nothing. Hand cramp.” Jones rubs his hand theatrically and bends back over the
wires, studiously not looking at Smartypants.
Ed frowns at him before giving a mental shrug. “Yeah, I’m Ed,” he tells Smartypants; at least
with one syllable the annoying Ehhddwoooord accent can’t get much of a purchase, and he
won’t have to hear Elric pronounced Eric anymore.
“Why does your commanding officer call you all metal?”
“What?” Ed says, writing out FAR-FIELD: E (electric) B (magnetic) . “Oh. Fullmetal’s my
alchemist title.” As an afterthought, “And he’s an ass.”
Jones stifles a noise but doesn’t look up. Smartypants glances over at him in concern, then
goes back to staring at Ed. “You don’t seem to like him very much.”
Hah. “I don’t like anyone very much,” Ed says distractedly, picking up the magnetometer to
double-check the increments. “Mustang’s an ass but he has his uses.”
“Oh.” She shifts quietly from one foot to the other. “You said anyone can learn alchemy. Is
that… can you just go to school for it?”
Ed pauses in writing for just a second, but doesn’t look up. “You know what chemistry is?”
“Yes?”
“You any good at it?”
“I -” Smartypants hesitates, but then her voice firms. “Yes. I will be.”
“What about physics?”
“Yes. I’m also very good at maths.”
“Great. You wanna know about alchemy? Come to Amestris, apply to a university and find
out. Central U’s got a decent program, if they take you.” The civilian programs aren’t really
doing anything beyond basic construction alchemy in the practicals right now, but the
theoretical departments get pretty wild and Mustang’s crusade to get the military to direct
alchemy to more civic projects is getting traction. “You’re gonna have to figure out your visa
shit on your own, though, I don’t know how your government talks to Xing.”
“They don’t,” Jones says. “The Divide isn’t even in this country - that’s why they had us use
that port key device. We traveled something like eight thousand five hundred kilometers, if I
did the math right.”
Ed snorts. “Was yours a flowerpot too?”
Jones grins at him, teeth gleaming white against his skin. “I really thought they were playing
a joke on us dumb foreigners until it yanked us out of there.”
“Still not convinced it’s not a joke,” Ed says, finishing writing out the last formula, then, as it
occurs to him, “Yo, your friend who saw the whole resurrection thing - what’d he tell you?
And why the fuck don’t they want him talking to us? They’re the ones who fucking invited us
here.”
Smartypants looks a little startled when he fully turns in his chair to face her, but her face
settles in frustration pretty quick. “I don’t know. Dementers are evil, and that you got rid of
them is a good thing. But we were forbidden from writing to Hairy all summer, and now even
professor loop in is saying he should get sent back to his aunt and uncle… I don’t know
what’s going on and nobody’s telling us. They say we’re too young.” Her mouth twists
bitterly. “As if we haven’t been dealing with Voldemort since we were eleven.”
Ed’s eyebrows bounce up at that. “Dealing how, exactly?”
Smartypants gives a grimly amused little shrug, looking definitely older than her sixteen or
so in that moment. “We’re Hairy’s friends, and Voldemort’s been after Hairy since he was
born. Gin ee even got possessed by him two years ago.”
Ed frowns. “Which one’s that?” They’ll have to talk to them as well, if only to verify whether
it was actual possession, Pride-style, or just carbon monoxide poisoning or something.
“What?”
“Which one’s ‘gin ee’?”
Smartypants looks taken aback for a second, like she honestly expected Ed to be keeping
track of all their names and birthdays and fucking horoscopes. “She’s the one with red hair,”
she says. “The girl, I mean.”
Miss Redhead, then, unless there’s another one running around that he missed. “We’ll
interview her too,” Ed says, then adds, because maybe she can let slip what the fuck they
don’t want the kid telling him, “Is she also gonna need a trusted fuckin’ adult to be able to
talk to me? Do I seriously look that fuckin’ scary?”
Jones makes another stifled noise. Smartypants is only a shade darker than Ed, so it’s kinda
hard to tell, but he’s pretty sure that’s a blush that makes her cheeks shade like that. “Um. No.
You - uh, no.” She clears her throat. “I’m not sure why professor loop in doesn’t want Hairy
to talk to you without dumbell door. Dumbell door certainly hasn’t wanted to talk to Hairy,
but… I don’t know. There’s got to be a good reason.” Her hands make fists, and now for a
second she looks all of maybe eight, like she wants nothing more than to stamp her foot. “I
just wish they’d tell us something. Anything.”
Well, that’s a bust. Ed does feel vaguely bad for her, because he remembers being fifteen and
nobody fucking telling him shit unless he pried, tricked, beat and begged it out of them; he
remembers the dull, creeping horror of realizing just how surrounded by secrets he’d been
and how fucking dangerous they were, how deep the rot went, how far. And Smartypants
might be a wizard but she’s asking questions, and she’s clearly learned that being deemed
“too young” isn’t going to help one fucking cent when the shit hits the wind turbine. Besides,
honestly, so far all the best intel he’s gotten has been from the damn wizard kids.
How is he getting better intel from a bunch of fifteen year olds. Then again, when he was
fifteen he’d been pretty much the only person ever to know what the hell was going on. Well,
him and Al. And Al was fourteen then , so, really, this shit is par for the course across the
board, apparently.
“Fucking sucks,” Ed shares with Smartypants, feeling magnanimous with the science care
package from Al. “Have you tried blackmail?”
The noise Jones makes this time is not nearly stifled enough. Smartypants’s eyes widen and
she opens her mouth, then hesitates, looking conflicted. “I don’t - I mean. I’ve had some -
ideas, but…”
“Try ‘em. What’ve you got to lose? You can get away with way more right now anyway,” Ed
advises. “Plus if people think you’re a little kid they’re more likely to let you off easy if they
catch you. Or at least it’ll look bad on them if they do retaliate.”
“Oh my god,” Jones says, then, “I would try - having an honest conversation, first? Talk to
your mom and dad, tell them how it makes you feel to be left in the dark about a situation
that closely affects you -”
“Jones, you’re in Intel,” Ed says incredulously, twisting back to face him. “ Honest
conversation? What the hell is Hughes teaching you guys these days?”
Jones waves his hands hurriedly. “No, no, it’s about escalation - start with no-cost guilt
tripping first, if that doesn’t work then move on to techniques that could damage the
relationship -”
There’s a crack somewhere in the hallway, and Ed and Jones are both on their feet before
Smartypants begins to turn around. A second later Beardy shows up in the doorway, though,
so Jones takes his hand off his sidearm and Ed loosens his shoulders, exhaling in a huff.
“Fucking finally,” he says as Beardy gives them an assessing look over his spectacles. “Yo,
Jones, go get Mustang. Party’s finally getting started in here.”
Chapter End Notes
Ed: when i was fifteen i knew everything
Narrator: he didn’t know fuck shit
Also: Faraday was in Amestris??? What????? When??? Shhh don’t look too hard
Chapter 11
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Miss Granger,” Beardy says, watching Ed as Jones slides around him and out the door.
“Would you go and fetch Remus for us?”
Smartypants glances back at Ed, then at Beardy, then back at Ed before she bites her lip, nods
and goes. “Edward,” Beardy greets. “How are you?”
“Fuckin’ aces,” Ed says shortly, turning to the table to pack up all the equipment and stow it
in the bag with his notebook and tables. “Never fuckin’ better.”
“I understand you had something of an adventure yesterday.”
“Oh, is that what happened?” Ed sticks the pack in the corner as far as possible from any
dumbass wizard that might accidentally give it a kick, magically or otherwise. “Here I
thought we just got lost on our way to a tea party.”
“I suppose that could also be seen as an adventure,” Beady says in a conceding voice. Ed
can’t tell if he’s being crazy on purpose or if he’s just so old that he can’t help the senility
breaking through at this point. “Ah. Here we are.” Mustache shows up in the doorway, and
Pirate’s here too, the Lemons guy in the corridor behind him. “Albus,” Mustache greets,
glancing at Ed, and he looks like he’s gonna say more only Mustang shows up with Hughes
at his back and Hairy herded in front of them. The kid looks shocked to see Beardy, though
the expression immediately settles into mule-headed hostility. “Hello Roy, and Maes, was it?”
Beardy says, by all appearances not noticing the kid’s betrayed glare as he goes and closes
the door behind them, taking his magic stick out and waving it around to no noticeable effect.
“Why don’t we all sit down.”
They end up arranged on either side of the dining table, Hughes and Ed on either side of
Mustang and Lemons and Pirate flanking Beardy with Mustache on the end. Hairy slowly sits
down at the corner next to Mustache, ending up mostly on the non-wizard side beside
Hughes, which may be because he likes Mustache, because Hughes has been working him as
a witness or because the only other options are sitting next to Lemons or sitting next to Ed.
Man, if Hughes got the resurrection story out of the kid while everybody was distracted
eyeballing Ed - well, that’ll be a good thing, and it’s not like Hughes doesn’t know how to get
a full story, but he’s also not an alchemist and Ed wants to hear what there is to hear
firsthand.
Ed’s about to open his mouth, but Hairy beats him to it and decides to open the meeting with
his own agenda. “Why do I have to go back to the Dursleys?” he says immediately. “Why
can’t I stay here?”
“You’re not fuckin’ going anywhere until we talk,” Ed informs him sharply, which makes
Hairy flicker a glance at him with something weirdly like relief.
“Use of underage magic was detected by the trace on your wand, Hairy,” Beardy tells the kid.
“The ministry was alerted immediately and you would have received a summons to court, but
since you were immediately thereafter on the London underground and then here, the owls
have not been able to locate you. We cannot delay the inquiries as to where you are for much
longer; defying the ministry so openly at this stage is not, I’m afraid, something we can
afford. Returning you to where you are expected to be is a necessary if regrettable move,
given the circumstances.”
Ed understood basically none of that except for how it was all about Beardy wanting to get
the kid away from them. “You will be safe at your relatives’ until the school term starts,”
Mustache tells Hairy, who’s having none of it.
“I got attacked by dementers,” he says mutinously. “I don’t think that’s very safe, is it?”
“I’ve spoken to mun dung us,” Pirate growls. “He won’t be skipping out again.”
Hairy does not like he’s following that sentence any more than Ed is. “What?”
Beardy looks like he wants to sigh really hard but doesn’t. “Mun dung us fletcher was tasked
with watching over you while you stayed with your relatives. Unfortunately, he decided to
step away at just the wrong moment -”
“Gentlemen.”
There’s this thing Mustang does sometimes where, without any real change in expression,
posture, or tone, some inscrutable internal switch gets flipped and abruptly everyone is
reminded that he’s a localized fucking extinction event when he wants to be and that he has to
flex, like, maybe four muscles to make it happen. Whenever Ed sees it he’s always
simultaneously fascinated, envious, exasperated and repulsed, because okay, it would be
really useful to be able to broadcast Don’t Fuck With Me in literal fifty foot letters of fire, but
he’s also seen Mustang asleep at his desk with a solid quart of drool all down his shirt and
over his paperwork, and, well. Ed suspects that Mustang didn’t deliberately cultivate this
switch so much as had it installed as a side effect of having been a state-sanctioned mass
murderer. Ed’s pretty goddamn grateful he doesn’t have that, actually.
It is, however, extremely effective in getting people to shut the fuck up no matter the size of
the conference room. None of the wizards are immune to it, either. Beardy stops talking and
looks at him; even Lemons leaves off lizard-staring at Ed to give Mustang a wary look.
“From what I understand of yesterday’s incident,” Mustang says, in his pleasant interrupt-meand-fry voice, “at his relatives’ house, you had a guard placed on Hairy specifically in case of
an attack. That guard was AWOL when the attack occurred. Hairy and the other children
survived unscathed thanks to the prompt action taken by Lieutenant Colonel Elric, who was
with them at the time entirely by chance.”
It’s so weird to be referred to by rank and surname. Ed wonders if ranks even translate
correctly - though with how Mustang’s sat back in his chair, one leg slung over the other, the
picture of casual indifference, he could be calling Ed a cadet on probation and his tone would
still be telling the wizards higher than you. “And now you want to return Hairy to the same
unsecured location, with the exact same guard? Hairy, who is an eyewitness - as far as I
know, the only eyewitness - to the alleged resurrection process? Please, correct me if I am
wrong.”
There’s a quiet moment as Mustache looks taken aback and Beardy and Pirate return
Mustang’s stare with their own poker faces. Lemon’s back to watching Ed. “AWOL?” Hairy
says confusedly.
Mustang glances at him. “An acronym for ‘absent without leave’. Dereliction of duty is not a
punishable offense when you’re a civilian, but this guard knowingly and willingly left his
post and left you, a minor, to fend for yourself against an enemy he knew to be lethal. A
soldier could be executed for such.”
Ed graciously refrains from snorting, because while Mustang had certainly left him to ‘fend
for himself’ in way more lethal situations, Ed hadn’t exactly been some wet behind the ears
baby wizard. “Oh,” Hairy says, looking kind of rattled. Case in point.
“Before we further discuss potter’s... situation,” Lemons speaks up, and really makes a
production of his whole staring-at-Ed thing when everyone looks at him. “We must address
the matter of the dementers, and how they came to be... destroyed.”
“Yes, thank you, sever us,” Beardy says, like he’s admitting it’s time to put down the
doddering favorite family dog. “I must admit that takes priority.” He turns to Hairy. “I
apologize, but I’m afraid I must ask you to step outside for the time being. Molly mentioned
tea in the kitchen, if you’d like to wait there for a moment.”
Oh, these motherfuckers seriously don’t want the kid telling them what he knows. Ed’s ready
to mutiny, but Mustang is sitting back in that this is gonna be good way so Ed has to grit his
teeth and sit back too because either that look is for the wizards, which means Ed’ll want to
see what happens next, or it’s for Ed’s impending aneurysm, which means he won’t fucking
give Mustang the satisfaction. “Secure our interviewee, will you, Fullmetal?” Mustang says
negligently, so Ed shoves up, stomps to the door, smacks it open and bellows, “Havoc!”
There’s a crash from down the hall. “What!”
“Babysit.” Ed goes around the table, seizes Hairy by the shoulder - “Hey!” - and drags him
out, down the hall to the Amestrisan base room. Hawkeye, Havoc, Jones and Arget all look
curiously at Hairy, who balks and scowls furiously at all of them. “This is our witness,” Ed
growls, propelling the kid forward and into a chair, too easily; gods, he weighs basically
nothing and clearly has no idea how to brace his stance at all. Al could brace himself better
when he’d been a forty-kilo bag of Gate-starved calcium-deficient bones. “They keep trying
to shunt him off to some other shithole before we can talk to him. Havoc, meet your new best
friend. He disappears, I disappear you.”
With that Ed stomps back, making sure Mustang gets an eyeful of his quit cutting inches off
my fuse glare. Mustang just gestures serenely at Ed’s vacated seat in a parody of pulling out
his chair for him. “I assume you have more information for us regarding yesterday’s attack,”
he comments at the wizards. “And that it is time-sensitive, to interrupt our main
investigation.”
“You bet it is,” Pirate says unpleasantly. “We need to know what the hell we’re going to tell
the ministry. There’s only so long Bones can stall.”
“Have we determined where the dementers came from?” Mustache asks, leaning forward
slightly to address Beardy down the table.
“Those two were confirmed to have departed from the reserve at Azkaban,” Beardy says in a
careful tone. Mustache sucks in a breath. “Amelia is trying to determine who gave the order,
if it even originated from the ministry at all. There is no official record of it, but that means
little under the -”
“Are you telling me the government sent those things after me?” Ed interrupts, because that’s
sure as hell what it sounds like. “Shit, is that what happens if you show up in wizard land
without getting your passport stamped by border control?”
“Not you, boy,” Pirate says irritably. “Potter. He’s got enemies in more than just the death
eaters.”
“There is… political pressure to discredit Hairy, and by proxy myself,” Beardy tells Mustang.
“We are inconvenient in our insistence that Voldemort has returned. This incident has given
certain factions opportunity to advance their position. So far talk has been confined to the
ministry, but there Hairy has already been painted as wilfully violating the statute of secrecy,
with the kindest rumors portraying him as a misguided youth making a characteristically
misguided adolescent bid for more attention.”
“Worst case scenario?” Mustache asks quietly.
“Snapping his wand, expulsion from hog warts, a fine of up to five hundred galley ons and
six months of supervised parole,” Pirate grunts. “If he’s tried as a minor. If not - prison.
There’s no set sentence for this.”
By the grim looks exchanged around the table this is some serious shit, even if it doesn’t
sound it to Ed. “All this ‘cause you think the damn kid offed those fucking things without
permission? He didn’t do jack shit,” he says flatly. That’s not quite true - someone had tried
whatever that silvery mist was - but he’s not a fucking snitch. “I never saw any magic.”
“There are spells that’ll tell whether a wand was used, and what was cast. They’ll be used at
the trial,” Pirate says, his pervert eyeball flicking over Ed with a nice try undertone to the
words.
Ed narrows his eyes right back. “Sounds like none of your wands can do what I did. If your
fucked up courts need me to take five minutes out of my day to prove it wasn’t some kid that
got rid of those fuckers, then shit, I’ll do my good fuckin’ deed for the year.”
“If it is discovered that you destroyed two dementors,” Beardy says quietly, “you will be
arrested for compromising national security assets and taken to prison without trial.”
That sentence is definitely Mustang’s problem. Ed looks over at him, and he graces Beardy
with a miniscule raise of the eyebrows. “These dementers,” he says. “They are agents of the
ministry?”
“Weapons,” Beardy says gravely. “They take orders, to an extent. They guard wizard ing
prisons for those most dangerous, and in extreme circumstances they are tools of war.”
“Mm. Which makes destroying one treason,” Mustang concludes. “And for an agent of a
foreign state, grounds for declaration of war?”
Beardy raises both hands briefly in a placating half-shrug. “Not war, no. We cannot afford it.
But imposing the harshest punishments they can - yes. They would sentence young Edward
to either death or life in prison.”
Ed doesn’t bristle too much at young fuckin’ Ehhhhddwoooord, because Mustang’s got his
I’m about to dogwalk your ass look on and it’s pointed straight at Beardy. “Anyone familiar
with Amestris’ foreign policy would consider that a very... brave decision,” Mustang says
mildly. We’ve started wars over less, and won them. “I understand that you and Madam
Bones would prefer if our presence here remained informal, and so far we have been able to
accommodate. If state assets are attacking my subordinate, however, then we have a state
problem.”
“There is every chance that the dementers were sent by Voldemort,” Beardy says.
“But the incident is being treated as though they are agents of the state, is it not?” Mustang
gestures languidly. “War weapons. Which tells us that this assassination attempt on Hairy is
coming either through the state or from the state itself. Your government is compromised.
Though you knew that, of course. The existence of this vigilante group is proof of such. The
only mystery here is why you are still cooperating with them.”
Beardy is now watching Mustang with a version of that look people get when they realize
he’s not just a pretty face on a one-trick pony. “The fact remains that we are still subject to
the law,” Beardy says. “We do not have the resources to openly defy it. Amelia cannot simply
refuse a direct order from the minister - and if she did, she would be immediately replaced by
someone actively antagonistic to our cause. Any show of power from us is grounds for the
minister to give such an order.” He looked very old then, face lined and worn. “With two
dementers vanished, they now have such grounds.”
“Potter goes to trial, we can defend him in court,” Pirate grunts. “It’s a case of self defense
with an underage wizard, we can carry the vote. For a foreigner? Not a chance.”
“You are that sure the boy will be safe if he goes to be tried?” Mustang says, sounding only
vaguely interested. “They’ve already moved openly to kill him. Handing him right back into
their control is not going to keep him alive just because you do it through official channels.
There are an astonishing number of ways an individual can die in custody.”
“They do not know it was Hairy who destroyed the dementers,” Beardy says wearily. “They
are certain to question him first, to try and understand what occurred. And he is known
enough that his trial will be a matter of interest amongst all the court factions that he will not
be allowed to vanish before appearing before the Wizengamot.”
“By obscuring Elric’s involvement you force the opposing presence to assume it was him,”
Mustang says. “You said so yourself. Regardless of specific information, that presence now
knows for certain your faction can destroy what they previously thought indestructible. That
is not something I, in their shoes, would allow to get as far as a public trial. Would you really
prefer to paint that particular target on the back of a child?”
Beardy watches Mustang over the rims of his spectacles. “You would prefer to spend your
time here dealing with the arrest of your subordinate?”
If it’s him or the kid getting arrested, then shit, Ed’ll burn down a wizard jail or two. He looks
over at Mustang. “What the hell. Been a while since we overthrew a government.”
Mustang sighs. “And what do you propose we do with it afterward, Fullmetal? Take it home
and name it Fluffles?”
“They have slavery,” Ed points out. “That’s just fucking asking for it. C’mon. Bet you it’d
take us like, a week, tops.”
“Terrorists come first, Fullmetal.”
Ed throws up his hands. “They’re already in the government, you just said so.”
“Then getting rid of them will kill two chimeras with one alchemist, won’t it?”
“Ugh, you’re the worst. Just fake the fucking kid’s death already,” Ed snaps at Beardy,
turning away from Mustang. “Or shit, they don’t even know what I look like, fake my death
and tell them I did it. Tell them it was a heroic sacrifice, blah blah, those things totally sucked
my soul out. The kid’s super traumatized and ran away and you don’t know where he is. They
can chase their tails looking for him while we track down the goddamn macaroni guy and end
the whole fucking problem.”
“Why don’t we use him as bait? The kid, I mean,” Hughes says. Ed and Mustang both glance
at him, and he shrugs. “If they want a fifteen year old dead bad enough that they’d send two
state-sanctioned weapons after him in a public park, I’d be willing to bet they’ll try again.”
Ed considers that. If they use the kid as bait, he’s not going to be sent out alone, and if he’s
not sent alone then it’ll be Ed who’s sent with him. “Those things come my way again, I’m
doing the exact same fuckin’ thing. Fair warning.”
Hughes shrugs again. “If they send more dementers and you get rid of those, too, that forces
them to send something else. If I didn’t know how my supposedly undying assets kept getting
dead, I’d send someone to find out in person - and I wouldn’t send a grunt. I’d send someone
who knows things worth knowing.”
Someone they can catch and interrogate and actually get useful intel from. “I like that better
than teleporting elves,” Ed admits.
Hughes nods. “I’d rather a cooperating asset laying a trap than a total unknown leading us off
who knows where in any case, especially with so many other unknowns in the mix.”
Even Lemons is watching Hughes now, who looks straight back at them with what Ed thinks
of as his just because my office in Intel is wallpapered in toothrotting photos of my wife and
daughter doesn’t mean it’s not an office in Intel face. “He’s a fifteen year old boy,” Beardy
says after a moment, which isn’t outright refusal, at the very least. “Even if we ask this of
him, he has every right - and he will be counseled such by many - to refuse.”
“You were ready to put him in prison,” Mustang says, sounding amused. “Whether he refused
it or not.”
“We told you, we could have swung the vote,” Pirate growls. “Either way the Aurors will be
after him. The trace is still on his wand. The moment he steps outside the Fidelius they’ll
send a squad to take him in.”
“They’ve shown they’d prefer to kill him outright,” Mustang points out. “Otherwise he
would’ve been called in for some minor violation long before now and imprisoned that way.
And killing him outside of their custody rids them of any need to do any kind of coverup.”
“He’s going to be a target no matter what,” Hughes says reasonably. “This way he’ll be
protected, and we’ll be able to directly address the threat. Whoever or whatever gets sent
after him will give us information on who’s directing the attacks and how. And if the police
are only tracking Hairy via his… wand, then we don’t even necessarily have to involve him
at all - we put the wand in a controlled location and see whatever turns up.”
A nice straightforward ambush. Ed likes that best of all, with no kid in the line of fire,
nobody to babysit, just springing a trap and hopefully getting a few punches in.
Beardy, however, does not look sold on this. He looks pretty bleak, in fact. “Albus,” Pirate
growls warningly.
“Using Hairy may be not be an option available to us, in the end,” Beardy murmurs, gaze
distant as he looks out at the table, no longer focused on Mustang. “There is evidence that
suggests a piece of Riddle’s soul is bound to Hairy, giving Riddle access to his mind, and that
connection is very likely - exploitable.”
Ed sits upright, hard, mouth dropping open. “Your head terrorist has a fucking hotline to this
kid’s head? And you brought him to your secret hideout?”
“You brought him here, Elric,” Pirate snarls. “Thank Merlin the Fidelius needs a direct
information transfer or we’d all have been dead yesterday. The boy was supposed to be
parked out with his muggle relatives, under watch, until he could be moved safely back to
hog warts -”
“The boy who is wandering through this house, unsupervised, right now? The one who’s seen
all our faces, and personally witnessed firsthand how Ed subdued your dementers?” Hughes
has his elbows propped on the table and his fingertips massaging his temples like the
barometric pressure of ambient stupidity in the room is giving him a migraine; when he
reopens his eyes they’re as sharp as his tone. “How long have you known about this leak?”
“And what kind of evidence are we talking here?” Ed demands, because hello, these people
think prophecy is a useful source of intel. “Like, did you trace the leak to the kid, is he acting
possessed, what?”
“Voldemort marked him, on the night he murdered Hairy’s parents and attempted to kill
Hairy as well,” Beardy says heavily. “The mark reacts when Voldemort is near, and Hairy has
experienced true dreams of Voldemort’s actions.”
Hughes puts it together faster than Ed does. “So you’ve known about this for fourteen
years?”
“Closer to one year or so,” Beardy says, tone all good-natured again with what Ed can only
assume is self-deprecating gallows humor. “There’s no way to test for such a thing, you see,
and the dreams Hairy reported to me only recently. Voldemort has not used this connection so
far, to our knowledge, and he may not even know it exists. To create a whore crux requires
deliberate action - but this one I believe was a magical accident, as it was made with the
death of his original body.”
Ed cannot have heard that right. “A fuckin’ what?”
“An object that houses a piece of a soul,” Beardy says, despite the fact that Pirate is pissed
enough to actually hiss through his teeth at that one. “It acts as an anchor to keep the soul in
the mortal realm.”
Like Ed had done with the rune on Al’s armor. Not that it makes it any better for him to have
drawn that parallel to what the wizards call a whore’s anything. “That’s what you were
talking about?” Ed says. “About the macaroni guy splitting his soul?”
“It may be more accurate to say he made copies,” Beardy says.
Ed throws up his hands again. “That’s a little different from splitting a soul -”
“If there’s no immediate danger of this location being raided,” Mustang cuts in, “and that you
have known about this problem for an entire year, what steps have you taken to address it?”
“Given Hairy met Edward and witnessed his dealing with the dementors by chance, it seemed
a matter of the cat already being out of the bag in regards to your party,” Beardy says,
glancing at Mustang. “We haven’t told or shown him anything sensitive, and as Alastor said
the location of this house is magically protected. None of you could lead another to this
house unless I had informed them of the location beforehand. Voldemort was only resurrected
in July; to our knowledge, he has not acted with any information gleaned from Hairy before
or since.”
“We do not know if Voldemort is even aware of the connection,” Mustache says quietly. “He
did not intend to bind part of his soul to Hairy, and Hairy’s dreams show a connection to the
mind of Voldemort’s snake - another living whore crux - rather than Voldemort himself.”
“So the kid is having snake dreams and on the basis of that you’re assuming lord volleyball
stapled on a chunk and-or copy of his soul?” Ed demands, trying to get the facts straight, if
they can even be called facts.
“It is no ordinary snake,” Beardy says.
“Wow, that makes it so much better,” Ed says disgustedly. “You have no hard evidence of a
leak either way, and even if you did I’m not hearing that you took any action about it beyond
‘send the kid out of the room when the grownups are talking’. Fucking - whatever. Hughes,
an ambush still looks workable to me, what do you think?”
“If it’s just the wand that’s being tracked, the question of the leak is a separate issue,” Hughes
says. “Is it just the wand?”
“There are other ways to find people,” Pirate says grudgingly, after a moment. “But they’ll go
for his wand first.”
“We may be able to lure Aurors alone with the wand, but Voldemort knows I am the one most
likely to decide Hairy’s movements,” Beardy says. “If Voldemort is truly so entrenched in the
ministry as to send dementers, he will have access to the Auror’s information. If Hairy
suddenly appears to be somewhere remote, unprotected, alone, I believe he will take the time
to ascertain whether it is a trap.”
“So we have to make it believable,” Hughes concludes. “That most likely means using the
kid. You said there’s no way to test for the…” His nose wrinkles in his usual You Freak
Alchemists expression. “... piece of soul? Or, presumably, any way to remove it?”
Mustang looks at Ed. Ed grunts. “I’ll see what I can do.”
Mustache looks a little bit alarmed, though he buries it quick. “What, exactly…”
“Lieutenant Colonel Elric is a master alchemist with extensive experience in dealing with
precisely this kind of problem,” Mustang says blandly, which at least sounds better than Elric
keeps surviving human transmutation. “In any case it seems you’ve exhausted all your own
efforts to undo the binding on the boy. There can’t be any harm in letting Elric try.”
“With alchemy,” Mustache says skeptically.
“Yeah, because I’m an alchemist,” Ed stresses, just about ready to start beating heads against
the table, probably starting with his own.
“Yes,” Lemons says coolly. “What did happen to those dementers?”
“Alchemy happened,” Ed says sarcastically. Mustang makes a minute flick of gesture with
one hand, because making Ed suffer is his passion and calling and he apparently hasn’t yet hit
his fill of idiocy today. Ed turns a sour look on Lemons. “Ever heard of thermite?”
Beardy blinks serenely at him; Mustache looks politely uncomprehending and Pirate looks
like those officers who absolutely hate dealing with alchemists because they can’t balance an
equation to save their lives.
“I have,” Lemons says.
“I made like maybe two kilos of that - wasn’t much more to pull from the ground - and set it
off in a compressing asphalt chamber.”
Mustache looks interested. “This… substance - it’s found in the earth?”
“Not really.”
“Then…”
“I made it.” Ed scowls, holding up three fingers on one hand and two on the other. “Iron
oxide.” He knocks them together, separating into two and the six signifier with his thumb in.
“Aluminum.” He knocks everything together again. “Thermite. Oxidizer, fuel, heat, redox.
Woopty-fuckin’-hoo.”
“He made a bomb,” Lemons concludes.
“No, I fucking didn’t,” Ed says sharply. “Thermite’s not an explosive. That reaction’s most
commonly used for welding.”
“So you… welded… the dementers?” Mustache says carefully.
“I actively compressed a local earth and asphalt chamber containing a thermite reaction of
around two thousand two hundred degrees for approximately ten minutes until the chamber
closed,” Ed rattles off, toneless. Mustang wouldn’t have made him explain this shit if they’d
been debriefing to the brass in Amestris. Everyone knows any halfway decent metals and
earths alchemist can make thermite - hell, any chemist can, with the right materials - but if the
military knew Ed could make so much, so fast, pulling from such a wide radius underground,
he’d be transferred to an assault or demolitions squad so fast his head would spin. Mustang
would’ve just told them Ed had started an electrical fire or something; Mustang would’ve
told Ed to keep his mouth shut and lied for him through his fucking teeth.
“What’s that fucking mean, boy,” Pirate snaps, apparently totally at the end of his already
obviously puddle-deep understanding of any kind of science.
Ed plants his right elbow on the table, sticks his hand out over the table palm up and clenches
it into a fist. “It means I trapped them, turned the heat up and fucking squeezed, wizard,” he
hisses. “How do you deal with them when they come after kids?”
“A patronus is the standard approach,” Beardy says, by all appearances unbothered by Ed’s
moment of hostility.
“Fiend fire has been known to halt dementers for a time,” Mustache murmurs, whatever that
means.
“Even curses have their uses,” Beardy says, in a way that sounds like he’s speaking directly
to Pirate without looking at him.
Pirate grunts. “We’re not sorry to see the dementors go, boy,” he says directly to Ed, pervert
eye fixed in the same direction as his real one for once. “But it’s dark bloody arts indeed that
can kill the darkest of creatures, and unforgiveables are unforgiveable for a reason. Killing
with magic is not something we take lightly, even if you call it alchemy.”
Is that why they’re all so fucked off about it? Not because he cooked a couple of arguably
sentient things alive, but because they think he used dark magic? “Pal,” Ed says, speaking
slowly and clearly to get through to this fucking alien , “you don’t need alchemy to make
thermite. The alchemy is just a fucking shortcut. Killing someone with a rock isn’t any
different from killing them with a knife or a gun or a fucking magic wish from your magic
stick. You’re fucking killing someone, and they’re fucking dead either way.” He exhales hard
from his nose, leaning back in his seat with both hands braced on the edge of the table. “Are
we faking my goddamn death or what?”
Chapter End Notes
ed, who grew up literally surrounded by violent, aggressive, and/or outright militarized
people who treat verbal assault as a morning pick-me-up and give as good as they get in
every interaction: sometimes i have moments of hostility
wizards: ok i don't care what the fuck y'all say that one IS a werewolf and he IS rabid
Chapter 12
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“I don’t think we necessarily have to fake yours,” Hughes says to Ed. “If we’re vanishing the
kid anyway and nobody even knows you were there, there’s no point doing you as well.”
“Are we vanishing the kid?” Ed asks pointedly, looking at the wizards, because they’re
almost certainly gonna need their help to convincingly pull it off.
“That depends on whether you plan to cooperate,” Mustang says, not making it clear at all
whether he means cooperate with us or cooperate with your government. “Right now it
wouldn’t be more than lying to the police, if by staying here Hairy is unfindable by any
means save deliberate exposure. Establishing an explicit disappearance will make our
ambush much more convincing, however. If we place his wand somewhere remote after the
boy is known to have been taken by unknown but obviously hostile parties, it will seem much
less likely to be an ambush to our enemies while also giving us the freedom to choose our
setting.”
“If you are assumed to be controlling Hairy’s movements, you should be publicly calling for
an official search for his whereabouts,” Hughes tells Beardy. “Make it look like you have no
clue where he is and that you’re desperate to find him. Our window for making that look
convincing is closing - and depends on what you’ve already told the authorities.”
“Only that we do not know his whereabouts, and that we are looking for him,” Beardy says
after a short pause.
“Decent groundwork,” Hughes permits. “Gradually step that up into controlled alarm and that
should be pretty much all you need, so long as you keep the kid inside until we need him.
You said there’ll be other methods to track him - what exactly are we looking at here?”
“There are scrying spells, as well as investigative work,” Beardy says. “The ministry may
decide to openly declare a manhunt as well, especially given many believe Hairy to be -
rebelling, and liable to make unsafe choices. Hairy is something of a celebrity, you see, due
to his surviving Voldemort, and the ministry will want to be seen taking prompt and thorough
action which will appease both supporters and naysayers. Under those circumstances he
would publicly be declared missing and wanted for questioning, with his image circulated
and information requested in exchange for reward.”
“What if we take him to trial anyway,” Pirate says, like he wants Mustang to bite back. Not
that that’d work: when it comes to provocation Mustang operates on a scale that Armstrong,
Hughes, the entire Amestrisan military, Mustang’s entire family and Ed have been personally
calibrating for years. Pirate’s gonna have to spit ammonia in Mustang’s eye or something to
even register.
Mustang himself looks like he kind of wants to tell Pirate to try harder as he sighs. “I was
asked to resolve this situation by a colleague who I personally trust and respect, and as such
we are going to see this through regardless of the circumstances,” he says, totally failing to
explain that this colleague is General Olivier Armstrong and will personally ram her sword
up his dick if he comes back without having fixed her friend’s problem or died trying. “Take
him to court or don’t; whether the boy lives or dies is ultimately of much more concern to
you, I think, than to me. We can track down the terrorists in other ways, though I think you’ll
agree that we would all prefer it didn’t come down to sending Lieutenant Colonel Elric out
into the street to shout ‘Voldemort sucks baboon cock’ or some such through a megaphone
and letting things play out naturally from there.”
There’s a stifled noise from Mustache. “If you think he wouldn’t,” Ed says flatly, looking
Beardy in the eye, “he really, really would.” He’d deck points for mispronouncing
voldiemort, too.
“He’s made you do worse,” Hughes agrees, faux-lightly.
Mustang doesn’t even deny it, just shrugs casually. “If you prefer, we can interview the boy,
find out what he knows and then leave him to you to hand over to the authorities. From there
the op will be in Elric’s hands.”
And that shuts Ed up, because like hell is he gonna let a kid go to jail for what he did.
Mustang might as well have added “And when Elric’s hand slips and accidentally razes your
prison and disappears the kid anyway, I’ll make some very convincing shocked faces and do
some very stern finger wagging.”
It’s probably less obvious to the wizards than it is to him and Hughes, though.
Then again, maybe not. All four wizards give Ed long, long looks, then glance at each other.
“I fear you may be right,” Beardy says finally. “Hairy’s safety is paramount, and a trial…
may be too great a chance to take, when we have other options to exhaust first.”
“Ambush is a go, then,” Ed says. “We take the wand, set it all up and in the meantime I’ll
take a look at the kid and see if he really is haunted or if he just needs antipsychotics.”
“Haunted,” Hughes repeats, amused.
Ed shrugs. “Medically speaking.”
“He’s not haunted,” Pirate says derisively. “Voldy’s no ghost.”
“And if no death eaters take the bait?” Lemons speaks up, before Ed can get sucked into the
stupidest terminology argument of his life. “What if you set your ambush and no ones
comes? Even if you do avoid the Aurors, the dark lord may simply decide to wait, or
determine it is a trap and strike at a better opportunity.”
“We get that elf to sell us out after all,” Ed says. “Grab whoever he meets with instead of
whoever would come for the wand.”
“And if that doesn’t work?” Pirate says.
Ed shrugs again. “How much plausible deniability do you want?”
“For what.”
“For all the illegal shit I’m gonna start doing. Your ministry won’t give us access to case
files? Fine. We’ll take a look anyway.”
“Fullmetal,” Mustang sighs.
“What? I told him to tap out if he wanted deniability.” Ed scowls at Pirate. “If your lord
vermicelli really is fucking around with human transmutation and genocide you want that
shit shut down quick. Mustang fucking told you. I’m the expedited option.”
“What about… longer term?” Mustache asks. “Hairy will need to return to hog warts
eventually, and term starts soon. If he’s not acquitted at trial, how are we going to manage
that? Are we going to disguise him indefinitely?”
“That was our thought behind allowing him to trial, as well,” Beardy says. “We cannot put
Hairy’s life on hold forever.”
“Magic terrorists are trying to kill him,” Ed feels it important to point out. “They’ll put his
life on hold a lot more permanently if we just toss him out to have his necessary teen fuckin’
life experiences or whatever.”
“You know, we could use him at hog warts,” Pirate says critically, eyeballing Ed in a
distinctly appraising way this time. “Even if he’s acquitted potter needs a closer watch than
you can give him with professors, Albus. You could send this one along with him when
classes start.”
It takes Ed a second to understand what he’s suggesting, but when he does he feels his blood
straight up freeze in his veins. He’s about to open his mouth and tell Pirate how hard he can
stuff it when Mustang does it for him. “When does the school start?”
Ed slowly swivels his head to stare at Mustang in total horror. He wouldn’t. He wouldn’t. Oh
fucking gods and atoms, he would -
“In two weeks’ time,” Beardy says.
Mustang flashes a smile. “I don’t expect this will take that long.”
Ed tries not to visibly slump in relief, but holy hell, that had been a close one. That was
exactly the kind of humiliating bullshit Mustang would consider worth the consequences of
both whatever Ed would to the fucking high school on top of his personal revenge.
“The fact remains that there is no guarantee your trap will succeed,” Lemons says. “And we
are on a time limit.”
Mustang shrugs again. “We’ll give it three days. After that, Elric can… expedite.”
“We’d appreciate suggestions on where to stage the ambush,” Hughes allows. “Someplace
with no civilians, ideally, and lots of cover.”
Mustache sends a questioning glance down the table, but Beardy looks thoughtful. “Hog
warts has such places,” he says. “Voldemort is unlikely to venture on the grounds themselves,
but there are places nearby… yes, I can think of a place that could prove ideal.”
Ed squints. “Hold up. Are you still talking about the school?”
“Yes,” Beardy says. “It is where several members of the order live and work, including
Remus, sever us and myself. Should the need arise we will be able to retreat behind its
defenses quickly.”
“Your proposed ambush site,” Hughes says, very slowly, “is a school?”
“It is the most fortified location in great Britain, with centuries of layered wards, including
those laid down by the founders themselves,” Beardy says, with nerve enough to have a
thread of reproach in his tone.
“Does it have any kids?” Ed demands. They said term hasn’t started yet, but images flick
past in Ed’s mind, of Risembool’s one schoolhouse being repurposed every summer as a
place to stick the kids you can’t leave at home but too young to join the field work, of the
Central city schoolyards full of summer soccer leagues and daycare programs and nature
camp classes; schools are never empty. “We’re not doing this at a school. No fucking way.”
“There are no students at the castle until term starts,” Beardy says. “On this you have my
word as head master.”
“I don’t care if you’re prince of the goddamn pig farts, you’re not gonna be able to guarantee
no kids, not anywhere near it, not under any circumstances, not even in the neighborhood it’s
in,” Ed says unequivocally. “We’re not running a goddamn drop raid in some white picket
fence hood. You can’t clear that.”
“Did you say castle?” Hughes says.
“Indeed. Hog warts is a castle in Scot land,” Beardy says, twinkling a little and by all
appearances completely insensate to anything Ed just said . “There is a village nearby, a few
miles’ distance. We would not be able to stage the ambush at the school in any case, as it
would be far too obvious a trap. The area is remote, rural, with little opportunities for hostage
taking,” he adds, this time directly to Ed; probably because the glare Ed’s sending him is
gonna make his beard smolder if he keeps ignoring him. “There is, however, a bar in the
village frequented by, shall we say, those less lawfully inclined, and the owner is a close
friend of mine, though not directly involved in any faction, and our connection not well
known as a result. He would agree to have us, for this.”
“That definitely sounds like an option,” Mustang says noncommittally. “We would have to
evaluate it in person beforehand, of course. Should it not suit, can we rely on you to provide
other locations? Say, three or so.”
“I can look into it,” Mustache volunteers, glancing down the table again to check with
Beardy.
Pirate grunts. “Say it all goes right. Say they take the bait. Say Voldy himself shows up, not
taking any chances, with everything he can throw at dumbell door, and aims it at you. What
are you going to do?”
“That brings us to what I initially wished to meet about, actually,” Mustang says smoothly.
“As you know, we are only beginning to explore what exactly magic is capable of. Some
examples of common combat techniques would be very useful, as well as what we might
expect specifically from the terrorists, if you could arrange a demonstration. We’ll need an
idea of what to prepare for in terms of offensive capabilities.”
“Yeah, we’re not going live without a demo of this shit,” Ed says. “Also, whatever you’ve got
on your soul copying, splitting, whatever, I need all of that. The more info we have the better
we can understand what’s going on with the kid.” Because if there’s anything like a human
transmutation array there Ed will recognize it, and that’ll at least be some hard evidence to
work with.
“I’m afraid the particulars of those spells are very highly restricted,” Beardy says all lying
apologetic. “Additionally, it was my understanding that you requested translation assistance
to read…?”
“Well you clearly know all about them,” Ed says sourly, not appreciating the reminder that
around here he’s functionally illiterate. “Why don’t you run us through what you know.”
“I know only the shape of what Riddle must have done, not the substance. I’m afraid much of
our own knowledge is conjecture… I have not made as much a study of the dark arts as
perhaps I should, and in truth few have. Fewer still who know the secrets of creating a whore
crux.” Beardy sighs. “All the same, I will tell you - it would merely be most sensible, I
believe, to discuss it when Hairy explains to you what he saw,” he adds, then slides his gaze
to Mustang. “As for demonstrations… yes, I believe we can accomodate. Provided, of course,
we get an idea of your capabilities in turn. It will allow us to make sure you know what to be
prepared for, and what may prove to be a specific danger to you.”
“Certainly,” Mustang says in his of course, Fuhrer, I would never dream of leading a coup
against you voice. “I assume the yard space attached to this house will be suitable for this
purpose.”
Pirate grunts. “Bones should be there,” he says. “You too, Snape.”
“This evening, then,” Beardy says. “Amelia gets out of court at six. In the meantime, we can
make a start on our very convincing inquiries as to where Hairy potter has gone.”
Ed sits back slightly now that it looks like the wizards are at least nominally going along with
the plan. “Any chance at all of laying hands on some case files?” Hughes asks. “Since we’re
defying your ministry after all.”
“I will see what I can do,” Beardy says, which probably means he’s not even gonna try.
“When do you plan to examine Hairy?”
“Right fuckin’ now,” Ed says, pushing back from the table. “Not like we can use him without
capping your shitty alleged ghost leak. Come if you’re coming.”
“It’s not a ghost,” Pirate growls aggrievedly under his breath, but Ed ignores him.
Chapter End Notes
The trace as is explained in hp canon is wildly inconsistent and frankly horseshit. I posit
it’s placed on wands at time of manufacture (since wands are registered like cars are) &
deactivated if sold to an adult.
Moody, thinking he should remind this arrogant little swot that however hardcore he
thinks he is he's still minimum twenty years younger than everyone else at the table, and
utterly unaware of the fact that mustang is exactly petty enough to throw all caution to
the wind and make it happen: lol u should go back to school kid
Mustang: HA! Keep pissing me off and i'll see what i can do
Aberforth: you volunteered my bar for WHAT
intermission
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“He’s really not that bad.”
Harry tries not to twitch. It’s the first thing anyone’s said since the really tall blond man
introduced himself as Chaos and pointed out the others as Hawkeye, Arget and Jones, after
Elric had pushed Harry into a sofa and slammed back out. Back to the meeting with
Dumbledore, where Harry had been brought in for all of two seconds and then
unceremoniously kicked out again. He’d thought he would finally be getting some answers,
but Dumbledore had barely glanced at him, again, and told him he’d explain later, again.
It occurs to him that someone said something. “What?”
It’s the Chaos bloke again. He’s the one looking over at Harry, absently shuffling a deck of
cards with his elbows braced on his knees. “The boss. Lieutenant Colonel Elric, I mean.” He
opens his mouth to say more, then pulls a face. “I was gonna say his bark is worse than his
bite, but that’s wrong in pretty much every conceivable way.”
The Hawkeye woman gives a very tiny snort. She doesn’t look up from the book she’s
reading. The cover features two crossed battle axes over an illustrated splatter of blood.
“Don’t worry,” pipes up the girl Chaos had pointed out as Arget. “I know things are difficult
for your people right now, but they sent you all metal and flame. You’ll be alright.”
“The boss is a good guy,” Chaos agrees. “Don’t let the yelling scare you, he’s just like that.
Volume dial got stuck at birth or something.”
“Right,” Harry says, eyeing the multiple gun holsters on everyone’s waist. They don’t look
much like the soldiers he’s seen on the telly and occasionally on the tube; their uniforms are
bright blue and old-fashioned-looking and practically everybody has the kind of hairstyle
Aunt Petunia would aggressively disapprove of, but they’re still unmistakably soldiers.
They’re also all sharp-faced, white and blond - minus the one introduced as Jones, who’s
black with long dreads in a neat bun - and it’s kind of making Harry feel like he somehow
ended up in a room full of Malfoy cousins. Nobody’s been a berk to him or anything - yet -
and they all seem pretty relaxed, actually, but something about the way they hold themselves
reminds him of Malfoy’s father.
Harry thought that was just how you stood when you were thoroughly posh, but maybe not.
Maybe it’s just the way you stand if you think you’re better than everybody else in the room.
Or maybe it’s just if you've probably killed someone.
Harry feels vaguely guilty to make such an unfair judgment about people who’ve really only
just sat there and kind of apologized for their colleague - Elric did kill two dementors - but on
the other hand that Mustang officer is some kind of horrifying Snape-Lockhart hybrid and
Elric makes no secret of how he thinks everybody besides him is about as bright as a
concussed troll.
These four seem… not like that, but it’s not like Harry’s known them longer than five
minutes. None of them are staring at him, at least. Chaos fishes a packet of cigarettes out of
his uniform jacket; the Hawkeye woman calmly keeps reading her axe book. The other two
keep doing… whatever they’re doing at the table on the other side of the room. Harry
considers trying to get up with an excuse that he’s just going to the toilet, but he can still feel
Elric’s grip on his shoulder as he’d effortlessly planted Harry into the sofa cushions. His hand
felt like a sock full of walnuts.
There’s no guarantee Chaos wouldn’t just follow him to the bathroom, either. He’d seemed
pretty cowed by Elric, even if he is defending him to Harry now.
Well, if they don’t call him back in to the meeting in five minutes, Harry’s going to try
anyway.
Chaos shuffles the cards again, then does a complicated move to fold them into one neat
stack and waggles it at Harry. “You wanna play cards?”
Chapter End Notes
me trying to write british person pov: OY MISTA, YOU ME WIZARD?
Chapter 14
Ed snags the bag of equipment before he shoves back into Camp Amestris ahead of Mustang,
Hughes and the wizards, where Hawkeye and Havoc are sitting opposite Hairy on the
couches and Jones and Arget are on either side of one of the end tables, fiddling with a
comms radio and writing. Havoc has an unlit cigarette in his mouth and is paused in the
middle of a hand of cards with the kid.
“Yo,” Ed says as they all look up at his entrance, dropping the pack next to Hawkeye and
then pushing three fingers against Havoc’s cards to show them flat. “Deadman right off the
bat? Havoc, we’re representing all of goddamn Amestris here. Have the decency to at least
teach him how to cheat.”
“I showed him the deck was marked!”
“You told him not to pay attention to the little scratches on the backs of the cards,” Hawkeye
says dryly, putting away her book.
“It was a skill evaluation! You need to see where people are at before you start teaching them
-”
“Yeah, yeah, save it for the court martial. You, stand up,” Ed adds to Hairy, snapping his
fingers. “We gotta check for that extra soul piece. Show me the mark.”
“What?” Hairy says intelligently.
“How the ‘dark lord’ fuckin’ ‘marked you’ or whatever,” Ed says, rolling his eyes and
scrunching bunny quotes with his fingers. “If you even have one.”
“You want to see my scar?” Hairy says, sounding annoyed, glancing between Ed and
everybody else filing in behind him.
“Sure,” Ed says, because that’s as good a contender as any. “Let’s start there. Where is it?”
Hairy hesitates, casting hostile looks at Ed and Lemons and more uncertain ones at Mustache
and Beardy. Mustache nods at him with what might be meant as an encouraging look on his
face, so Hairy puts his hand to his forehead and lifts his wild hair out of the way.
There is a scar there - small, jagged, reddened. “That’s convenient,” Ed says, pushing the
coffee table aside with his foot so he can get close and lean in. “Least it’s not somewhere
embarrassing.”
“Did you say soul piece?” Havoc asks, like he already knows he’s gonna hate the answer.
“Yeah, it’s a whole damn clown show,” Ed tells him distractedly, examining the scar from a
dozen centimeters away; Hairy’s going a little cross eyed trying to stare him down. “They
think when lord rigatoni blew himself up he accidentally stapled his soul onto the kid here.
Or something. And now they have telepathy.”
“What?” Hairy yelps, jerking back.
“Hold still,” Ed growls, pinning the kid by one shoulder.
“What do you mean, Voldemort’s soul?” Hairy demands, fists clenched, muscles bunching
under Ed’s grip. “Is that why I - I’m -”
“I don’t know, you tell me,” Ed says impatiently, still trying to get a look at the kid’s scar
even though he’s not holding his hair away anymore. “What are your symptoms?”
“Symptoms of what?” Hairy says hotly. “Being possessed by Voldemort?”
“Okay, make up your fucking minds here,” Ed snaps, throwing up his hands and stepping
away; the kid’s clearly freaking about being pinned and they need to clear this up regardless.
“You say he’s thinks he’s possessed, he thinks he’s not, what’s the fucking deal?”
“I never said I was possessed!” Hairy says hotly.
“Well they sure as shit think you are,” Ed says frankly, jerking his thumb at Beardy & Co.
“Said you were having weird snake dreams and how apparently that qualifies. Hey - bring
what’s her face, Miss Redhead, get her in here,” he adds, abruptly recalling what Smartypants
told him. “She thinks she got possessed too, right?”
Hairy gapes slightly, going from hostility to guppy-faced shock in no time flat. “She did,” he
says, in tones of bewildered acknowledgment.
“Two years ago, right? And if she’s not possessed now, what changed,” Ed says, half thinking
out loud. If she’d even been possessed at all, or had just been living somewhere with
hallucinogenic mold at the time or something. Given the state of this house, Ed would not at
all be surprised.
Beardy coughs. “Her experience was somewhat different to yours, Hairy. She was possessed
by a piece of Voldemort’s soul, yes, but it was not bound to her.”
Hairy’s face slowly creases in confusion. Mustang sighs. “Havoc, go get… who are we
looking for, Fullmetal?”
“One of the kids. Redhead girl, ‘bout this tall.”
“Her name’s gin ee,” Hairy says, though he’s still looking at Beardy and sounding subdued.
“Gin ee Weasely,” Mustache says. “I can fetch her.”
“Please do,” Beardy says politely. Mustang lets it stand, waving Havoc down. Ed turns back
to Hairy; might as well get this out of the way. “Are you gonna let me check you over?” he
asks bluntly.
That ends his moment of guppification. “Do I have a choice?” he shoots back.
“Not really, no,” Ed says.
Hairy scowls. “Fine.”
Ed leans back in, matching scowl for scowl, squinting through the hair. There’s no rune that
he can see, and the scar itself isn’t even remotely rune-shaped. No air shimmer either, even
when he waves the kid to tilt his head to the side and up to see it from different angles.
Nothing is ever easy, is it. “I’m gonna touch you,” Ed warns, tugging the glove off his left
hand.
“You already touched me.”
“I mean your scar. Hold still,” Ed growls when Hairy flinches back. “This isn’t gonna hurt.”
“Saying it like that never reassures people, Fullmetal,” Mustang sighs again. “At least try for
some bedside manner. What would your brother do?”
“Al handcuffs uncooperative patients to the gurney,” Ed says incredulously. “Have you met
Al? You want me to do it his way, I can, and I’ll even sound sorry when I apologize just like
he does -”
“You’re a doctor?” Hairy says, like the idea of Ed holding an MD is a horror too great to
fully comprehend.
“No, I’m one of three living experts on soul transmutation,” Ed says, exasperated. “It’s why
the fuck I got sent on this goddamn op. It’s also why I’m trying to get a look at your special
fucking forehead, because if you do have some extra soul stuck in there, we might be able to
remove it.”
“Oh,” Hairy says.
“Next time lead with that one,” Mustang says.
“Y’all can shut up in the peanut gallery,” Ed says tartly, then tells Hairy, “I’m gonna put my
hand on your head. Don’t move.”
Hairy scowls again, but less than before and obligingly doesn’t move. Ed puts his palm to the
kid’s forehead. Doing the composition trick on living things is always kind of yucky, though
ever since Al figured out qi he’s been insisting Ed’s doing it wrong; Ed maintains that he’s
just better at the non-biological sciences, thanks, and that feeling sap gushing and blood
pumping and organs organing is plain fucking disgusting no matter how good you are at it.
It’s why Al’s the one in medicine.
Ed focuses on pure composition first, reducing the info to base elements, and yep, that’s a
human body all right. Actual amounts vary but the ratios stay more or less the same, carbon
water salt salt salt salt, and with some effort he redirects to shape, doing his best to ignore
the unpleasant… squelchiness…. of feeling. Knowing the sensation is entirely in his head
does not help: of course it’s in his fucking head, that’s where all his experiences are.
Nothing weird in the elements, structure, shape. Well, not like Ed was expecting much
different. He had to try to rule out unknowns, but there’s no material aspect to a soul. A blood
rune works by creating an energy field that traps the soul in place, linking and binding it to
whatever it’s attached to; Ed knows how it works, but for him to quantify exactly what energy
that field is he suspects he’d have to feed a couple more organs or something to the Gate.
Maybe not even then. The most infuriating aspect of Gate-given knowledge is that while you
can understand, so much of it you just straight up can’t fucking explain. The information
does not get transferred, it does not get shared, it just fucking sits in you like a bloody stone.
God’s funniest motherfucking joke.
Then again, the Truth isn’t for helping people. It’s not for anything. The truth just is.
There’s nothing odd that Ed can pick out about the composition of the kid’s physical body,
and there doesn’t appear to be any kind of rune, at least on his forehead. Al could probably
get more, between his qi-sensing and his medical training; if there is something here, though,
Ed’s not likely to find it. Not this way, anyway.
He opens his eyes and peels his hand off the kid’s forehead. “Well, you’re definitely alive,”
Ed says, more to Hairy’s dreading look than to impart any useful information. Hairy rubs at
his forehead like Ed’s touch is gonna give him acne and looks resentful.
“Was that all?” Lemons drawls. He’s leaning against the wall with his arms folded, him and
Beardy both looking like two very different species of bat in their (black, neon fuschia)
dresses.
“Nope,” Ed says, tugging his glove back on. “That was the five second physical. If you were
expecting fireworks you’re gonna stay disappointed.”
Hughes and Havoc snort in tandem somewhere behind them. Assholes. “No rune?” Mustang
says, wandering up to not quite hover at Ed’s shoulder.
“Not sure.”
Mustang peers at Hairy; Hairy transfers his glare to him. “Could the scar be part of a rune?
The shape…”
Ed shrugs, digging out the tiny emergency flashlight from his jacket. “Could be one third of
the Middle Xerxean glyph for ‘sewage’.”
“Cute,” Mustang says dryly, shifting back again. “What else?”
“Well, there’s no magic in it. Not right there, anyway. Probably.” Ed sticks the flashlight
between his teeth and goes to clap - only to have Mustang grab his wrist for the second time
today, mother fucker . Ed spits out the flashlight. “Oh my god, fucking what?”
Mustang gives him a serious look, his gaze flickering to Ed’s hands for a second. “Fullmetal
-”
“What? The fuck are you - are you serious? How stupid do you fucking think I am, you
bastard? Seriously?”
“You have a history with making rash decisions in certain circumstances,” Mustang says,
letting go of Ed’s arm.
“Oh sure, let me just transmute it the fuck off him, ram my ass headfirst into the Gate, lose a
couple fingers and toes when Truth shows up like “the fuck is this, bring your kid to work
day?” and kicks me the fuck back out - fuck alone knows what he’ll lose - and if we’re lucky
we’ll come out the other end with him missing only half his skull,” Ed says sarcastically. “Or
maybe his skull intact but missing the entire fuckin’ brain, though around here maybe that’ll
just make him a better wizard. No, dumbass, I want to look at it in UV.”
“By all means,” Mustang says grandly, like Ed was asking for permission or something.
“Is there a problem?” Beardy says mildly, now standing closer than he was before.
“No, I was mistaken,” Mustang says casually, like he didn’t just go for Ed’s arm like he
thought he was gonna stab the kid. “Carry on.”
“Looking at me like I just fell off the turnip truck, the fucking nerve of some people,” Ed
mutters, tossing the flashlight into the air to clap and catch it in the transmutation on the way
down. The mercury and silica he pulls from his left bracer - Al’s idea, to keep a little bit of
the compounds he commonly uses to modify equipment on him to keep him from
cannibalizing whatever’s nearby for his necessary elements - and this particular flashlight
he’s transmuted into a UV bulb so often that the aluminum casing never loses the sloppy
transmutation marks anymore.
At least this time he’s not using it to look at gross bodily fluids around horribly murdered
people. Ed scowls to see Hairy now pressed back against the couch as far away as he can get.
“Seriously? We just went over this.”
“What are you doing to my skull exactly,” Hairy says tersely.
“Shining a light on it,” Ed says impatiently. “Some stuff shows up under blacklight that
doesn’t in the normal spectrum. For fuck’s sake, everything I do right now is gonna be by
necessity non-invasive, o-kay? That means we’re not doing anything to it, we’re just looking.
Nobody’s fucking around with your soul or your head until we know exactly what we’re
dealing with.” Then, as an afterthought, “And not until you tell us what you saw at the
resurrection process.”
“Pardon me for getting a bit concerned, with all your talk of handcuffing and missing brains
and cutting my skull in half,” Hairy says acidly.
Ed grins at him. “That’s the spirit. Here, close your eyes, this is gonna be bright.”
Hairy chooses to squint heavily instead, so Ed holds his palm flat with the edge near the kid’s
eyebrows to shield what he can. “What stuff,” Hairy mutters.
So far, fucking nada. “Blacklight ink is the go-to trick for ‘invisible’ writing,” Ed says, doing
another pass just to make sure before clicking the flashlight off. “You can use other shit, but
this is the go-to for a lot of people and it’s always worth checking just in case. You got
nothing,” he informs the kid, pulling up his sleeve a bit, clapping again and pressing the
flashlight to the bracer to return everything back to how it was.
“In conclusion?” Mustang says, now on the other side of the coffee table, arms folded.
“No conclusion,” Ed says. “Physically, anyway. If it really is a soul, our best bet is getting a
qi sensor to take a look at him.” They might have to bring Al over after all.
“And if it is a soul. How are you getting it off him?”
Ed shrugs. “Al,” he says simply. “Or take him to Xing, maybe, after we clean up here. The
Imperial alkahestrists have a whole, y’know, spiritualism thing, and they can do some pretty
wild shit, apparently.”
“Have I got Voldemort in my head or not,” Hairy says crossly.
“We just told you, it’s inconclusive,” Ed says. “You need specialist testing to get a hard
answer on the physical. We can get you one later. Talk about your symptoms now, your snake
dreams, whatever. That might give us more to go on.” And let Ed know if he should look up
the specifics of, like, silver poisoning or local recreational youth hallucinogenic substances of
choice or something.
Hairy’s scowl is back to being more upset than mutinous. Shame; Ed was starting to like the
little bastard when he’d stopped being all panicky. Hairy glances what could be a question at
Beardy, who’s looking at Ed but answers anyway. “You may as well start at the beginning,
Hairy.”
Hairy sucks in a breath slowly. “Alright,” he says, rubbing one wrist and now staring fixedly
into hideous varnish of the coffee table. “In… first year, when I was eleven…”
Chapter 15
Chapter Notes
the sheer amount of hp wiki synopses and googling i had to do to get details of wtf even
happened..... this is what i get for writing in fandoms where i am only glancing familiar
with canon
See the end of the chapter for more notes
“When I was eleven,” Hairy repeats haltingly, then stops and frowns at Beardy like he’s just
remembered something. “Wait. Wasn’t Quirrell possessed too?”
Ed has to throw up his hands again. “Another one?”
“He had Voldemort’s face growing out of the back of his head,” Hairy says, gesturing
vaguely like that explains anything. “Under his turban.”
“What the whole-ass fuck,” Ed says blankly.
“He was indeed possessed,” Beardy says. “What other magics Voldemort may have used to
bind himself so to a willing host, we do not know, but his drinking of unicorn blood suggests
his tie was particularly strong to that body, which is what I suspect allowed for certain…
physical manifestation.”
“Unicorn blood,” Ed repeats. Can you feel your own blood pressure rising? He needs to ask
Al. “Sure. Cool. Amazing. Where’s this guy now?”
“Dead,” Hairy says, back to staring through the coffee table. “I - killed him.”
Ed’s eyebrows bounce up briefly. He may have fucked up a lot by the time he was fourteen or
so, but he hadn’t managed to outright kill anyone. On the other hand, this kid could probably
only kill by accident, and he looks pretty bent out of shape about it regardless. “What
happened?”
Hairy’s face twists further. “He attacked me. Touching me burned him, so I - grabbed on, and.
Yeah.”
Ed’s eyebrows climb further. “Is ‘burning magic death touch’ like the teleporting, or are you
just an extra special link in this daisy chain?”
That gets Hairy back to scowling at Ed all belligerent and confused. “What?”
“His mother cast formidable protective magic on him shortly before she died, specifically
against Voldemort,” Beardy says quietly. “She sank her life force into it and tied it in blood.
Up until very recently, this meant that Voldemort - or whoever he possessed - could not touch
Hairy without coming to harm themselves.”
Well that sounds like a lot of holy shit for later. “Up until recently? What, magic burning
death touch expired?”
“No,” Hairy says flatly. “Voldemort used my blood to bring himself back. He touched me to
prove it. Made a point of it,” he adds, bitter.
Right. Kidnappee. Ugh, this is why Al handles the traumatized ones. At least this kid’s only
flinching occasionally and not crying; he’s mostly just angry. Angry, Ed can do. Ed’s great
with angry.
On the other hand, it’s not like they have the timeline for Ed to tell the kid to suck it up, get
dangerous and get his own back. “That blows,” he says instead. What’s Al always saying
about building a rapport? Put yourself in their shoes, demonstrate sympathy or whatever.
“You should get counseling about it, that shit can fuck you up if you don’t deal with it head
on.” Ed pauses to reflect on what would make him feel better. He can’t invite the kid to be
raid muscle when he has to be the bait, though. Plus Ed would have to provide one hell of a
set of training wheels, given the kid’s obvious total lack of combat training.
Whatever, what they need right now is for him to talk more. “The more we know about what
happened, the faster we can drop this fuck. You wanna tell me about the resurrection?”
Hairy’s giving him another confused look, but this one’s more wall-eyed than belligerent. He
opens his mouth and is immediately interrupted by Mustache re-entering, with Miss Redhead
behind him. Oh, and Psycho too. How super. Hairy looks relieved as hell, though, twisting
around to give them a oh thank fuck it’s the cavalry look.
“Hairy,” Psycho says, immediately going over and sitting down next to him on the couch and
shooting Ed a hostile look along the way. Parent? Not much resemblance. “You should’ve
come and fetched me.”
“I don’t think they would’ve let me leave the room,” Hairy mutters.
“Is that so,” Psycho says frostily, hostility ramping in Ed’s direction.
“You were all so fuckin’ hype to disappear him before we could chat, we figured we better
make our own guarantees,” Ed says sweetly, sending Psycho his glare right back before
turning to Miss Redhead and waving her over. “You got possessed, yeah?”
“Yeah,” she says, no hesitation, coming over to stand by the other end of the couch with her
arms folded. “Why?”
“They’re trying to find out if I’m possessed by Voldemort,” Hairy says wearily.
Miss Redhead’s eyebrows bounce up. “You blacking out?”
“No.”
“Waking up in places with no idea how you got there? Doing things you don’t remember?
Sleepwalking?”
“No?”
“All that shit is pretty normal in cases of carbon monoxide poisoning,” Ed has to point out.
“I spoke parcel mouth, slaughtered thirty chickens with my bare hands in an hour and opened
the chamber of secrets,” Miss Redhead says, rolling her eyes. “That wasn’t exactly my
normal eleven year old skillset.”
Ed is briefly distracted from the rest of the nonsense by the staggering incompetence rousing
his inner ex-farmhand and ex-butcher’s apprentice both. “It took you an hour to kill thirty
chickens? What, did you chase each one three times around the yard first?”
“How should I know? I was possessed,” Miss Redhead says incredulously.
“Your ghost was a shit farmer,” Ed informs her.
“What do ghosts have to do with it?” she says exasperatedly.
“Uh, were you possessed or weren’t you?”
“We told you, it was Voldemort.”
“Ghosts can’t possess people,” Hairy says, frowning. “Right? They just go right through.”
Ed pauses. “The way you keep talking about ghosts like they’re real is starting to concern
me.”
Miss Redhead gives him a prize idiot look. “Ghosts are real.”
None of the adult wizards in the room are disputing this. Pirate is grinning, in fact, and
Lemons looks like he might be trying to figure out how to smile.
Ed turns to Mustang. “I quit.”
“And only for the third time this month,” Mustang says, pretty calmly for a guy who also just
heard the wizards confidently assert ghost realdom. Maybe he’s just decided to treat anything
they say as bat guano right from the start. “Do I need to start carrying around a copy of your
contract with me?”
Mustache coughs slightly. “Ghosts are stable, sentient impressions of witches and wizards
who have died in circumstances that left them feeling unable to move on,” he says. “They
cannot possess anyone or anything, and they cannot perform any magic. Actual possession is
very rare - things that can manage it have sentience but no stable or rather unsupported form
of existence without a host.”
“Magical parasites,” Beardy says. “They absorb the life force of their host, and in worst cases
subsume them entirely.”
“You know what, fine, whatever,” Ed says, waving a hand to shelve all that away from his
mental workspace for a second. “You said what happened to her -” he points - “is not what
happened to him.” His finger swings to Hairy. “And also not what happened to the squirrel
guy. Explain.”
Beardy sighs and moves over to one of the unoccupied armchairs in the corner, pulling out
his stick and waving it; the air around the armchair bursts into shimmers as the armchair itself
bursts into a larger, more flowery, aggressively lime green armchair and scoots closer to the
couches. Ed controls his reflexive jerk only through the knowledge of how stupid he’ll look if
he’s spooked by a floral armchair. “As I told Hairy, I fear we may have to start from the
beginning to give you a comprehensive picture,” Beardy says, sitting down in his crime
against nature.
“Well shit, we got time,” Ed says, planting his ass on the coffee table and gesturing grandly.
“Your claim is he got his chunk of soul glued on when he was a baby, right? What happened
to her?”
“Hold on,” Hughes says; when Ed glances over he’s staring hard at Beardy. “Is this
classified?
Beardy stares back, and it looks like something at least gets communicated; thank fuck
Hughes figured out how to get something through wizard skulls. “The details of Miss
Weasely’s possession are common knowledge,” Beardy says finally, which probably means
the Hairy kid knows what happened there already. “As are what happened with Quirrell, at
least among those in this room. Hairy himself was involved in resolving both.”
“Really,” Ed says, turning back to the kids. “What happened?”
Miss Redhead and Hairy glance at each other. “Well, I got possessed second year,” the girl
says.
“Malfoy gave her a book, only it turned out to be Voldemort’s,” Hairy says.
“He’d put a piece of his soul in it,” Miss Redhead says. “It was meant to open the chamber of
secrets.”
“The what,” Ed says. He can feel a headache coming on.
“You may want to start from the beginning,” Beardy repeats, with a remarkably straight face.
“Okay,” Miss Redhead says, glancing at Beardy and taking a deep breath in, “so hog warts
has this room, under the dungeons -”
“You can only get in if you speak parcel mouth,” Hairy puts in.
“- right, and it’s hidden - but anyway, everybody thought it was a myth until people started
getting attacked -”
Things do not appreciably improve in coherence from there. Ed would almost suspect them
of tangling the narrative on purpose, except the girl’s putting on her tough face and Hairy’s
clearly deeply worried. The adult wizards not stepping in, though… it could be them not
wanting to interfere with the firsthand retelling, but somehow Ed doubts it.
The two kids wander their way through killing chickens (why?) talking to spiders (what?)
and hearing voices in the walls while everybody was petrified (another potential point to the
carbon monoxide option?), and when they start talking about somebody moaning in some
bathroom Ed has to wave them into silence.
“There was an object, a book, that the soul was bound to,” Ed tries to distill. “And by reading
the book, you got possessed?”
“By writing in it.”
“Sure, whatever. By interacting with it, you got possessed?” She nods. “So how did you get
un possessed? Did you just stop touching it?”
“No, we had to… Hairy had to stab it. With a fang.”
That can’t be translating right. “A what?”
“The Basilisk,” Hairy says. “Slither inns monster. It was in the chamber of secrets. I used one
of its fangs.”
Ed pauses, then pulls the translation rock from his back pocket and shakes it slightly. “Say
again?”
“Giant snake,” Miss Redhead says, in the tone of one realizing she has to use small words.
“Venom melts through anything, kills people with its eyes. Hairy killed it with a sword.”
“No shit?” Beardy, Mustache, Psycho and Miss Redhead all nod. Ed glances over at Hairy in
surprise. The little beanstring doesn’t look like he has the muscle to do a pushup, let alone
swing a sword, but appearances can be deceiving. Maybe he’s one of the berserker types.
“Nice.”
“I had help,” Hairy mutters, looking massively uncomfortable.
“I would’ve died if it wasn’t for Hairy,” Miss Redhead says matter-of-factly. “He killed the
Basilisk, then he took its fang and stabbed the diary.”
“Diary?”
“The book. It was Voldemort’s diary from when he was in school,” Hairy says, grimacing.
Psycho rubs his shoulder. “Malfoy must have got it straight from him.”
“Who’s this Malfoy guy?”
“Lucius Malfoy,” Hairy says bitterly. “He’s a death eater.”
“Hold on,” Hughes cuts in; Ed twists to look at him. He’s staring hard at Beardy. “You didn’t
mention you’ve confirmed the identity of an active cell member.”
Beardy shakes his head slowly. “Lucius Malfoy was acquitted -”
“He was there,” Hairy interrupts, as close to a real snarl as Ed’s heard from him so far.
“Voldemort named him. I know what his bloody voice sounds like.”
“He was where?” Ed says, suspecting he already knows.
“When Voldemort brought himself back,” Hairy says tightly, still staring at Beardy.
“And do we know where this Lucius Malfoy lives?” Hughes says, very evenly.
“Malfoy is a discussion for later,” Lemons says, eyes briefly flicking to Hairy. Right, he
might be broadcasting all this to Terrorist HQ. “You said you wished to hear the details of the
resurrection?”
“Yeah, we do,” Ed says, turning back to Hairy; the kid looks ready to spit nails and
determined to aim at least one through Lemons’ eyeball. Psycho looks pretty much the same,
actually. “Yo, cool it,” Ed tells them both. “Your Malfoy asshole’s a dead man walking, don’t
worry about him right now. Tell me about what you saw.”
Psycho looks kind of surprised, but Hairy immediately turns to Hughes, which is another
pleasant surprise pointing towards him not being as much of a wet blanket as he first appears.
Hughes’ look goes from stone cold murder (relaxed eyes, friendly smile) to genuine
amusement (vaguely deranged eyes, psychotic smirk) when he notices. “Don’t worry, I don’t
forget,” he chirps. “You go ahead and tell the nice Lieutenant Colonel all about it! I’ll just
wait right here and think my thinky thoughts to myself.”
“Holy fuck, he’s like fourteen, Hughes, not four,” Ed says disgustedly. Hughes gasps and
mimes being stabbed to gruesome death as Ed turns back to Hairy. “Seriously, chill. He’s an
idiot but when he paints a target he hits it. Tell me about the resurrection.”
“I’m fifteen,” Hairy mutters, sounding it.
“Wow, amazing,” Ed says impatiently. Does he need to prompt the kid? Maybe he really is
four, it’s usually younger witnesses that need to be led around like this. “You said you got
kidnapped, yeah? Did they grab you from home, from school, what?”
“From the try wizard tournament,” Hairy says. “At hog warts. I - there was a port key. When
we touched it, me and Cedric -”
He cuts off there, jaw tight, and Mustache leans forward slightly. “Cedric Diggory was
another competitor,” he tells Ed, like he expects him to know what the hell kind of wizard
sportsball they’re talking about. “Another student of hog warts. He and Hairy were
transported together to the site of Voldemort’s resurrection.”
“Voldemort killed him,” Hairy says tightly. “Right away. Or - worm tail did it. On
Voldemort’s order.”
Underage kidnappee whose kidnapping upgraded him to murder witness right off the bat,
fucking amazing. Ed resists the urge to rub his face. “Where did you get taken?”
“Graveyard,” Hairy says shortly. “Voldemort’s family was buried there. He used his dad’s
bones in the ritual.”
Oh boy. Digging up remains for human transmutation, pretty standard as far as trespasses
against the laws of life and death go, but using your loved one’s corpse to make a body for
yourself? That’s a level of fucked up even Ed hasn’t seen yet. “What was around you? Was
the ritual already in progress?”
“No,” Hairy says. “I - whenever Voldemort’s around, my scar hurts. This one was so bad I
couldn’t move. And - my leg was hurt, in the tournament. I couldn’t really see until worm tail
tied me to a headstone.”
Hughes raises a hand briefly in a hold up gesture. “Worm tail?”
“A death eater,” Mustache says quietly. “Peter petty grew. He was the one to betray the
potters to Voldemort, leading him to their door.”
Miss Redhead unfolds and refolds her arms like she wants to do something, and Psycho
clasps Hairy’s shoulder in a kind of awkward sympathy rub. They don’t look at each other -
well, Psycho’s still busy growling at Ed with his eyes and Hairy’s staring at his own knees -
but Hairy slumps slightly under the hand. “Worm tail had a cauldron ready,” he says dully. “It
already had a potion in it. He put in bones from Voldemort’s dad, then his own hand, then
some of my blood.”
It’s Ed’s turn to pause with one palm up. “His hand?”
“Yeah. He cut his own hand off,” Hairy says. “Voldemort made him a new one.”
Ed’s never heard of any array requiring a base ingredient like that. What was it for?
Biological material from three different people - two living, one dead - was this guy trying to
make himself into some kind of human chimera? Three sets of human genetic code into one?
Why? Though supposedly incorporating the kid’s blood had made him immune to the kid’s
dead-mom-powered burny magic death hands.
“What was the worm guy for?” Ed says aloud. “Your blood to negate the protective magic,
his dad’s bones to base his body construct off of… unless he’s basing it on the worm guy?
Did he come out looking similar?”
Hairy makes a plainly disgusted face at that, which is at least an improvement on all the
trauma staring. “No, uh. Worm tail is short, and Voldemort came out of the cauldron really
tall.” His face scrunches in distaste. “He looked like a snake.”
“Really?” Miss Redhead says, grimacing. “Like… scales?”
“Kind of,” Hairy says, grimacing back. “His skin looked all waxy and his eyes were red. And
he had no nose.”
Yikes. That sure as shit sounds like chimerism, though this is sounding like the most
complicated staggered recombination Ed’s ever heard of. When the fuck did they add the
animal genes, if those were even added at all? Though if there was a - potion, whatever the
fuck - already prepared, who the fuck knew what could be in it.
“How did they get the soul into the body?” Ed says aloud. “Was Wally whatever possessing
the worm guy? Was there anything inscribed on the ground, any lights, what?”
Hairy makes another face. “Voldemort had a body, before,” he says. “It looked like a baby.
Sort of. A really sick baby. Worm tail put it in the cauldron after he put my blood in and there
was white light and then Voldemort came out.” He gives Ed another of those confused looks
he’s real good at. “I don’t think there was anything on the ground. Just grass.”
And grass is a shit medium to draw arrays on, ask Ed how he fuckin’ knows. Though
apparently there was a fucking… cauldron… and there might have been arrays on the inside
of that. Or no arrays at all, who the fuck knows. “And that was it? What about - the other kid
who died. Did they involve him in it at all?”
Hairy’s jaw clenches. “No. They just killed him and left him lying there.”
“Nobody else was killed?”
“No,” Hairy says, now glaring up at Ed with just as much narrow-eyed hostility as Psycho. “I
got tortured a bit, though, that was fun.”
Ed grins back at him, friendly, showing teeth. “That right there, keep that up,” he says. “It’s
gonna get you a lot farther than moping. Nobody else dead, that’s something, at least.” He
turns Beardy and the adults. “What do we know about the technicals of the process?”
Nobody says anything for a second, Mustache, Psycho and Miss Redhead all looking at him
like they want to say something but aren’t sure what the hell it even is. Lemons is back to the
extra sour but Pirate is grinning again, this time looking much less like it’s at Ed’s expense.
Ed scowls back on principle.
“What I have been able to find on the topic is scant, but it is purported to be a very old ritual,
used by dark wizards to restore their bodies after grievous injury,” Beardy says after a
second, glancing briefly at the others. “It requires the bones of a relative, the flesh of a
servant and the blood of an enemy.”
Restore their bodies. Where’s Ed heard that one before, hah. Light emissions from
philosopher’s stones or red water are pretty much always red, and it doesn’t sound like
anyone was outright sacrificed during this ritual, even if some body parts got chopped off: a
hand isn’t a soul, and doesn’t contain any energy on its own, just genetic information.
Though if the… cauldron… had been full of red water, treated with whatever modifications a
crazy wizard could cook up, who knows what the fuck lights it could give off. Or this could
be another case like the teleporting: whatever energy they’re pulling from doesn’t require
tapping the energy of human life.
So they’re right back to a solid question mark. Fucking amazing. At least it doesn’t sound
like they’re doing it the philosopher’s stone way. Otherwise why leave Hairy alive at all? If
Ed was an evil bastard and already had the kid right there and harvested all the bits he needed
he’d have just fed him right into the array. Not to mention the other kid - you don’t just kill
off extra juice for the batteries, you chase him into the array and drain him there.
“Did he… did Voldemort possess a baby?” Miss Redhead asks, like it’s what she’s been
thinking about this whole time. She looks kind of nauseated.
Ed snorts. “If he could possess grown ass adults I don’t see why the hell he’d possess a baby.
Those things can barely even move.”
“He may have found it easier to occupy a host with no developed will of its own, in his
weakened state,” Beardy says soberly.
Gross. “So. Your connection to lord fuckin’ wahoonie,” Ed says, turning back to Hairy. “Your
scar hurts when he’s close?” That’s evidence that there’s something stuck in there, even if it’s
not necessarily a soul.
“Yeah,” Hairy mutters. “It hurt when Quirrell was close by, too.”
“That other possessed guy?” Hairy nods. “What else?”
Hairy shifts uncomfortably. “Last year, I started having these - dreams.”
“About snakes,” Ed says, partly to clarify but mostly because he can’t help it.
“I dreamed I was a snake,” Hairy snaps. “Voldemort’s snake. And that I killed someone,
when he told me to. As the snake.”
“Frank Bryce,” Beardy says. “He was a gardener at a manor that belonged to Voldemort’s
relatives, where Voldemort must have hidden prior to his resurrection; the manor was
supposed to be empty and Bryce must have gone to investigate when he saw something
unusual. The location was just as Hairy described it, and we confirmed Bryce’s disappearance
was on the same day Hairy had the dream.”
Ed frowns. “No body found?”
Hairy swallows. “The snake ate him.” Then he looks all horrified, shoots a glance at Miss
Redhead and quickly stares back at his lap again.
That is, objectively, pretty disgusting, but judging by the aura of shame the kid could stand to
meet Darius and Heinkel and experience Heinkel coughing up a hairball or two. Besides, as
disturbing and gross as eating a person via telepathic snake possession undisputedly is, the
linked disappearance - name, date, location - is decent evidence that the kid’s got something
going on with the whole non-consensual brain-broadcasting thing.
Ed glances back at Hughes, and Hughes nods. “Alright, I think we’re good for now,” Ed says,
turning back to the two kids. “We gotta talk about some other shit but you two stick around in
the kitchen or something, okay? Yo - Havoc, go teach them deadman for real this time. If
they can’t count cards by the time we’re done here I’m demoting you back down to
corporal.”
“That’s not fair, boss, you’re the only one who can even do that,” Havoc complains, standing
up. “At least let me teach ‘em to hide aces or something.”
“Al does it,” Ed says without mercy. “Mustang too. It’s just math. Go on, git. You, hold up a
second,” he adds to Hairy, over Havoc’s betrayed cry of “Chief!”
“What,” Hairy says warily, Miss Redhead lingering at his shoulder, as Mustang glares
tangibly at the back of Ed’s head while trying to placate Havoc without losing his dignity.
Psycho looks torn between following the kids like a protective sheepdog and staying to glare
at Ed some more.
“I got homework for you,” Ed informs Hairy, pulling out his notebook, ripping a couple
pages out and digging for one of his expendable ballpoints. “Write down all the names of
people you recognized at the resurrection, with any associated details - what they look like,
what they said or did, anything you remember. When you’re done we give it to Intelligence -”
Ed jerks a thumb at Hughes, who waves merrily - “and they do their shit and spit us out
everything we need to nail the bastards. Got it? Good. Now go, get the fuck outta here.”
Chapter End Notes
ed: when i was a traumatized double amputee eleven year old, what worked for ME was
being bodily shaken out of my wheelchair and yelled at to stop being a pussy by a
military officer twice my age
mustang: please stop telling people how we met
ed: no :)
Intermission
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Harry’s a little too dazed by the abruptness of Elric’s… everything to properly protest being
kicked out again, but the sheets of paper in his hands keep him from complaining entirely. He
should have written down all the names he heard in the graveyard, back in July; it’s
information that could help the Order. It’s at the very least a guarantee that he’s not going to
get shipped back to the Dursleys the minute this meeting ends.
Sirius walks them to the door, glancing back over his shoulder to where Chaos is still
grumbling at Mustang over something to do with cards. “Stay in the kitchen, alright? Have a
snack, sit tight. I’ll tell you about it when it’s over,” he adds under his breath, which has
Harry and Ginny both shooting him surprised and grateful looks. Harry hasn’t had a chance
to really talk to Sirius since he came to Grimmauld Place, not alone, and he resolves to
remedy that as soon as possible: even if Professor Lupin wants him to go back to the
Dursleys, he’s sure Sirius doesn’t. If not, at the very least Harry might be able to talk him
around.
Chaos detaches himself from the other foreigners - what had Hermione called them?
Unplottables? - and heads over to Harry and Ginny, rubbing the back of his head and
scowling good-naturedly. He’s still got an unlit cigarette in his mouth. “Can’t believe my own
see-oh cheats at cards,” he complains. “With his loyal subordinates, no less. Might as well
dock our damn paychecks and cut out the middleman.” He nods companionably at Sirius. “I
can take them from here.”
“Right,” Sirius says coolly. “Off you go, then,” he adds to Harry, squeezing his shoulder one
last time before showing them into the hall and closing the door.
“So,” Chaos says. “Show me to the kitchen?”
They show him to the kitchen. Ginny sits down at the table; Chaos moves past them and
mumbles vaguely to himself as he pokes at the kettle on the ancient stove. Harry tentatively
takes the seat across from Ginny, putting his papers and Elric’s pen down in front of him. He
should probably say something to her, but he has no idea what; she’s not even looking at him,
just gazing down at her clasped hands on the table instead.
It’s probably not a good idea to just sit and say nothing. Harry tries opening his mouth.
“Er…”
“Is it weird that we’ve both been possessed by Voldemort?” Ginny says, sounding more
thoughtful than anything.
“No! No, I mean… I dunno,” Harry fumbles, through the wave of relief that she doesn’t seem
repulsed at all by the fact that he had confessed to killing and eating someone as a snake.
“They... they think I’m still possessed. I think.”
“Well, you’re not acting very possessed,” Ginny says briskly, looking at him. Her eyes are
clear and steady and not at all afraid. “If all you’re having is the dreams then it’s probably
just because of your scar.”
“I think they think there’s something in my scar,” Harry says, the relief giving way to the
frustration, always waiting underneath. He can’t even say they’re wrong; normal scars don’t
give people true dreams about Voldemort. “It’s all Elric was poking at, anyway.”
Ginny gives his forehead a curious glance. “Did he find anything?”
“No. He said I need to get a specialist to look at it.”
“A specialist in what?”
Chaos coughs slightly from beside the stove, making Harry jump and twist to look at him.
“That’ll be Alphonse,” he says. “He’s a good kid. Training to be a doctor. He’s an alchemist
too, good enough to be state level if he wanted to.”
“Training to be a doctor?” Ginny says suspiciously. “Why can’t Harry get someone who’s
already a doctor? How old even is he?”
Chaos waves a hand hurriedly. “No, no, he’s really good, he’s just getting his formal
certification now. He’s got loads of experience. Al specializes in this stuff, and we can bring
him over on short notice, so… and he’s twenty, I’m just used to calling him kid.”
Harry feels a freshly looming sense of dread coming on. “Al? Is that the person Elric was
talking about? The one who handcuffs people?”
Chaos coughs again, looking like he’s trying to stifle a pretty big laugh. “That - may have
been exaggeration. Alphonse is very nice. Very polite.”
The looming dread hatches into horrified recollection. “Didn’t Mustang say brother?”
Chaos grins fondly, unlit cigarette bobbing. “Yep, Ed’s younger brother.”
“Great. So Elric but smaller,” Ginny says sarcastically, clearly not believing a word out of
Chaos’s mouth about how nice and qualified this person is.
Chaos makes a small choking noise. “No, uh. He’s - Alphonse is bigger, actually. Physically.
Kind of a lot bigger.”
Hairy is momentarily arrested by imagining a bigger Elric, which arrives in his brain as a
Hagrid-sized behemoth only instead of Hagrid’s genial roundness it’s Elric’s aggressively
triangular torso and acres of studded black leather. It seems very natural for this image to be
baring teeth like a piranha’s and holding Hagrid’s enormous crossbow. “Right,” Harry says
faintly.
“He really is nice, though,” Chaos says hastily. “You’ll see. Ed’s - well, they’re both great
guys, it’s just Ed is just…”
“A prat?” Ginny suggests.
“You were thinking he was pretty fit a couple hours ago,” Harry can’t help but say, then
immediately snaps his mouth shut.
Ginny sniffs, tossing her hair. “I can think he’s fit and still acknowledge that he’s a prat.
Killed thirty chickens with my bare hands and he’s worried about how fast I did it? What a
twat. I was possessed.”
When Harry glances at Chaos he sees the man’s grinning enormously. “I don’t know what a
prat is but by your tone, I fully agree with you,” he says happily. “Don’t worry. I can’t say
they aren’t similar in some ways, but Alphonse is a lot, well -”
“WHAT?” interrupts a muffled bellow from down the hall, in what’s unmistakably Elric’s
voice. They all startle and look down the corridor to the closed drawing room door, but
nobody emerges and Harry can pick out the faint murmur of conversation resuming.
“Should we… go over there?” Ginny says, glancing between Harry and Chaos in a way that
lets Harry know the two of them would’ve already been pressing their ears to the door if
Chaos wasn’t with them.
“Nah. They’ll come get us.” Chaos shakes his head, grinning ruefully. “Well, if nothing else,
Al’s quieter.”
Chapter End Notes
Havoc, if he knew the lexicon to explain Al to Ginny and Harry in a way they’d
understand: ok so imagine a hufflepuff. Like the most hufflepuff ever to huffle and/or
puff. Now imagine him peeling his skin off to reveal a slytherin god damn nightmare
underneath
Ginny and harry: wh -
havoc: he’s great! SUPER nice
Chapter 17
Psycho chooses to stay, taking Hairy’s place on the couch, and Ed props one foot on the
coffee table and shifts so that he’s sitting facing both wizards and Amestrisans. “So,” he says.
“Middling evidence that there is something stuck to the kid, so sure, let’s go with the working
theory and say it’s one of the soul… chunks, copies, whatever. How many even are there,
anyway? Do you know?”
“We suspect there are… seven,” Beardy says, after a pause.
Maybe it’s Beardy’s expression, maybe it’s just plain old paranoia, but something unpleasant
begins to tickle at Ed. “Seven?”
“Voldemort has undoubtedly made more than one, as he clearly meant for his diary to be used
as a weapon,” Beardy says. “He would not have treated his failsafe for death as expendable
unless he was certain his survival would be guaranteed by others. We are almost certain his
snake a whore crux, as well as his family ring; there is also evidence he hunted down famed
items of three of hog warts’ founders in his early years. Given the nature of his… personal
philosophy, it is very likely he sought them to use as containers for his soul.”
“A weapon,” Ed repeats, still poking at that awful little tickle.
“They’re pieces of Voldie’s soul, boy,” Pirate grunts. “If they get near enough to someone or
get enough power to manifest then you bet your arse they’re going to do as much damage as
they can. What do you think happened with the chamber of secrets? One whore crux set a
Basilisk on a castle full of children. It’s a miracle nobody bloody died, and that was a damned
close one.”
The tickle is now a full-fledged itch, and now Ed knows exactly where it’s coming from.
“Seven pieces,” he repeats flatly. “And they can act independently, and possess people.”
When he’d compared the whole soul-splitting thing to Father and his sin-munculi, he hadn’t
known that this lord whackadoodle had also split into the same exact number and the
offshoots were fucking weaponized . Hadn’t Beardy said something about them being
hidden? And not people?
“It is a magically potent number in itself, as well,” Beardy says, though something in his eyes
is too heavy for what he’s saying.
Something about that pings a different but no less unpleasant bell. Ed narrows his eyes.
“Diary, ring, snake, three other things,” he says, looking hard at Beardy as he counts off.
“Plus the kid. Who you haven’t been able to un-possess.”
Beardy smiles sadly. “You have hit upon the crux of the matter, as it were. The diary has been
destroyed, but as for the others… we have suspicions only as to where they may be, and
Voldemort has proven that he will only rise again unless all are destroyed.”
Including the kid, he doesn’t say. Ed stares at him. Beardy is looking back all tragic and
woeful, like this is just too bad so sad and they don’t have a choice about it, and it’s so
pathetic that Ed finds he doesn’t even want to waste the breath to yell: this guy’s totally
fucking convinced and totally fucking crazy. His nutbar grandpa schoolteacher ass is getting
booted off the op the second they close this meeting.
They managed to leave Selim Bradley alive; they can fuckin’ pry this chunk of soul out
without killing Hairy too. Ed’s lip curls. “Why don’t you leave that one to us.”
Beardy inclines his head all depressed, because he’s 100% fucking resigned to murdering this
kid just because he’s maybe a little bit possessed sometimes. Ed makes a mental note to
assign Havoc more bodyguard-babysitting duty, because while Beardy doesn’t seem like he’s
tried to off Hairy yet - though what the hell, putting only one guard on a target that’s
apparently important enough to send war weapons after? That’s not fucking shady at all.
Mustang was the only person to say shit when he brought it up in the other room - do none of
the other wizards think that’s off?
They can't freeze everybody out - they've got precious little information as it is, and it feels
like every three minutes they get served another shit sundae curveball surprise. Ed can only
dearly hope that it's just that the other wizards are stupid and blindly deferent instead of
actively aware that their fuckin' fifteen year old resurrection witness has a pre-order place on
the casualty list.
And everybody treats the bearded coot like their fearless leader. This is a fucking
garbage parfait of crap with extra whipped shit on top. Ed would tell Mustang to peel Beardy
with a can opener, only judging by the totally expressionless way he’s already looking at
Beardy, he already knows.
Good. His problem now. Ed turns to Hughes. “Try with the wand first, or are we still using
the kid?”
Hughes shrugs. “Sure, if we’re willing to work around the leak.”
Ed grimaces. “Fuck. That’s… ugh. And we can’t just say ‘surprise! You’re bait! Get in the
car!’”
“What do you mean, bait?” Psycho interrupts.
“For your lord tortelloni. Keep up.”
“We are merely discussing options at the moment, serious,” Beardy says, which at least gets
Psycho back to glaring if not settling. Ed narrows his eyes; the way everyone keeps fucking
deferring to the guy is gonna be a problem when it comes to freezing him out, but then again,
that’s why they have Mustang.
“When you say work around the leak,” Mustache says, glancing at Psycho and then Beardy.
“What exactly…”
“If he has been broadcasting this entire time, then the enemy knows our faces, and
presumably everything we’ve said to him,” Hughes says. “It would be safest for us to deal
with his… soul issue... entirely, since we don’t know what exactly is being transmitted or
how, but if it turns out we can’t, we use it instead.”
“Stage a kidnapping,” Mustang clarifies.
“Masks, hoods, the works,” Hughes agrees. “If right now the enemy knows, through Hairy,
that he’s with you, we need to make him - and thus them - believe that he is no longer here,
or with allies. That’ll mean Hairy can’t know it’s us, though, and I imagine that’ll be, oh,
incredibly traumatizing.”
Ed grimaces. They really need Al here. “Let’s just cap it.”
Hughes shrugs again. “Either way Hairy will be bait, since you don’t think the wand alone
will be believable,” he says with a pointed glance to Beardy and Pirate, then lasers in on
Psycho. “Unless you feel like freeing your slave?”
“I’d love to, but you see, the little bastard is just dying to get us all murdered,” Psycho grits.
“And not even a team of Aurors can catch a house elf once the little blighters get going, so
I’m not exactly eager to do the deed. You understand.”
“You can free him after we get rid of lord calamari,” Ed says shortly, then turns to Mustang.
“Using the kid is still the best go, probably. We’ll just have to wait for Al. He said he’d stay
in Guangshi until we got back.”
Mustang briefly raises the fingers of one his clasped hands in acknowledgment. “We’ll see
about fetching him today.” Then, addressing the wizards more than Ed, “I would prefer that
we see the proposed site for the operation first, however, to determine whether we need to
retrieve any specialized equipment as well.”
Beardy glances at Lemons, who uncrosses his arms. “I will take you,” he says, looking
deeply pessimistic about this prospect. “There are preparations for us to make as well, in case
the dark lord decides to resolve this matter… personally.”
“If he shows up himself and it all goes to shit, we retreat to the castle,” Pirate says brusquely.
“Even he’ll have to slow down a bit to get through the wards.”
Lemons pinches his mouth. “He has breached the castle before, at a fraction of his strength.
When he went after the philosopher’s stone -”
“The WHAT?”
Chapter 18
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Even Pirate looks a little taken aback at Ed’s bellow. “The philosopher’s stone,” Lemons
repeats, looking mildly disturbed at how Ed, Mustang, Hawkeye and Hughes are now giving
him what are probably some pretty unhinged looks. “I take it you’ve heard of it.”
“Heard of it,” Ed snarls, vaguely aware that he’s standing again, hands flexing. No, calm
down, things are different here, it’s magic not alchemy. Don’t jump to conclusions.
Investigate, then act. “Do you know how it’s made?” Is it too much to hope that this version
isn’t dead people?
Beardy frowns reprovingly while everybody else just keeps looking at Ed like he’s started to
froth at the mouth. “There is only one alchemist who has succeeded in making the stone, and
he has sworn to take the secrets of the process to the grave. He has since destroyed it along
with all of his research in order to prevent those such as Voldemort from obtaining them.”
“Right.” It’s definitely dead people. Ed inhales, pressing his hands palm to palm in front of
his face, no array active but only through serious effort. “Okay. Let me recap real quick.
You’ve got a supposedly immortal, extremely powerful individual who has separated himself
into seven pieces, at least one of which has been known to act independently and maliciously
against you? And he’s after philosopher’s stones?”
Beardy looks slightly pained, but nods. “More or less.”
Ed twists in place to point his still-joined palms at Mustang and the rest. “Anyone else
getting a really shit case of deja vu over here?”
“Yes,” the Mustang-Hawkeye-Hughes trifecta answers in chorus, in one deeply unamused
tone.
Arget raises her hand. “Corporal Arget,” Mustang acknowledges. He’s still staring Beardy
down.
“Is this like what was happening that time we all got our souls sucked out, sir?”
“Exactly like.”
“Yessir. Thank you sir.”
The wizards are now looking like it’s less of a rabies and more of a gentle straightjacket and
softly padded room situation. “All of you got your souls sucked out?” Psycho says
skeptically.
“Yeah, our whole country nearly got murdered in one night, it fucking sucked,” Ed says
flatly. “The Hairy kid’s dad wouldn’t happen to be immortal, would he?”
“His father is dead,” Mustache says, sounding too weirded out to be pointedly flat about it.
“Like dead dead, or faked his death to go on the run and set up a counterattack dead?” Ed
asks, on the off chance that this really is some kind of impossible running parallel to Ed’s
own teenage years, like evil immortality-obsessed genocidal bastards with a thing for the
number seven are a kind of rail laid down in the fabric of the universe.
“If he weren’t dead I imagine we’d have found out by now,” Mustache says with a bit more
bite.
“You’d be surprised,” Ed tells him. “No? Really for sure dead?”
“I saw their bodies,” Psycho says through his teeth.
“Shame,” Ed says. “Anyone else got an immortal and-or supernaturally endowed relative on
their side? Mine really helped us out last time, even if he was a collossal fucking dick.”
“Why don’t you go and get yours to help you again, then,” Psycho says irritably.
“He’s dead too,” Ed informs him, unimpressed. “You’re shit outta luck for a replay. Nobody?
Doesn’t have to be a dad, we’re not picky. No? Well great. Has this lord wingding got a way
to shut your magic off?”
That got them all turning horrified looks on each other. “Turn magic off?” Psycho says
incredulously.
“No,” Beardy says firmly. “No, he relies too heavily on it himself. I doubt he would even
conceive of such a thing… he has always been about subjugating others through stronger
magic, proving his superiority over them and demonstrating his mastery over what he
considers the ultimate power. He is a half-blood, you see.”
“Uh huh, sure,” Ed says, turning enough to make eye contact with Mustang. “So. We got a
problem.”
“Yes, we have been telling you,” Lemons says in the tonal equivalent of rolling your eyes.
“You opened with ‘there’s a mother fuckin’ prophecy’, okay, shut up,” Ed says distractedly.
A homunculus like Lust or even Gluttony is manageable; even something like Sloth or Pride
they can do with coordination and planning. But something like Father, that is… not fucking
good. “So. Forget resurrection for a second. Immortal or not, he’s still pulling strings in the
government, deploying war weapons, he’s orchestrating a genocide and he’s got bits of
himself that he can send out to possess and kill people - am I missing anything?”
“The teleportation,” Mustang says, utterly without humor.
“Yeah, right, that. The bitch can teleport.”
“And fly,” Lemons remarks.
Fucking fly? “Are you enjoying this?” Ed snaps, twisting again to glare at him.
“Somewhat, yes,” Lemons says unashamedly. “For your information, I witnessed the
prophecy as it was foretold, and can personally verify both its existence and influence.”
“Any other fun facts you want to share with us?” Ed demands. “Something useful, maybe?
Names and pictures of all these so-called acquitted terrorists? Any more magic no-nos that’ll
fuck up our ambush?” It occurs to Ed that there is a very pressing question they haven’t asked
yet. “Does he have any alchemists?”
Pirate snorts. “Our alchemists sit around dreaming about how to turn dragon dung into gold,
boy. Voldie doesn’t need them. It’s one in a hundred that has the brains to do anything useful,
and they all end up going into potions work anyway because drawing useless rune circles all
day doesn’t pay.”
“Someone made at least one philosopher’s stone,” Ed says pointedly. “That’s pretty goddamn
far from useless.”
“No one else has had the successes Flamel had,” Lemons says.
“That you know of,” Ed says sharply.
“I believe what you call alchemy may be different from what we know it as,” Beardy says,
conciliatory. “It is very much a scholar’s art, here, and much of it theories only of interest to
researchers of history. I have never heard of alchemy performed with a touch, or being used
in any form of combat.”
“Magic’s faster, see,” Pirate says unpleasantly.
Ed gets a brief flash of how Mustang smirked his too slow a split second before everything
around him fucking exploded and has to hold in a derisive snort. Mustang gives Pirate a
measured look. “A smart alchemist,” he says, “does not freely advertise everything that they
can do.”
And making philosopher’s stones has nothing whatsoever to do with combat ability. Not
when you’ve got muscle to round up the people you’re sacrificing, anyway, and by all
accounts lord wackydoo has no shortage of that. “So let’s assume they have fucking
alchemists, too,” Ed says, pinching the bridge of his nose briefly. “Anything else anyone
wants to add to this shit sandwich?”
“This Lucius Malfoy character,” Hughes says, arms folded. “We should pay him a visit, have
a little chat. If we can’t access any case files, we may as well get our information firsthand.”
“It wouldn’t do you any good,” Lemons speaks up again, sounding impressively bored. “The
dark lord’s inner circle is magically bound to reveal none of his secrets. Even if you managed
to take him, interrogating him would give you nothing of use.”
Hughes’ eyebrows rise; Ed, Jones, Havoc and Arget simultaneously lean back in place. When
Hughes looks pleasantly surprised like that it means he is seriously, seriously fucking pissed.
“You didn’t think to mention this when we outlined our plan of action?”
Lemons raises his eyebrows right back. “My understanding was that you would compel those
you captured to return to their lord, and thus follow them,” he says. “They would have a set
meeting point to return to, and following them would circumvent the magic that binds their
tongues. Otherwise I would have led you to him myself.”
Mustang, Hughes and Hawkeye all swivel to narrow their eyes at him. Ed doesn’t have to
swivel. “You were in with the terrorists?”
“Sever us,” Beardy says in a warning tone.
Lemons looks extra lemony even as he pushes up his sleeve and shows off a skull tattoo with
a snake in its mouth on his inner forearm. “The dark mark,” he says. “Voldemort brands his
followers with such. It contains magic that prevents us from revealing secrets, even under
verity serum.”
For fuck’s sake. “Shit, it’s even down to the tats,” Ed marvels, caught halfway between
laughing until he screams and pinching himself somewhere painful to make sure he isn’t
dreaming. “First the ouroboros, now this thing. Is every immortality obsessed freakshow just
totally kinked out on snakes? Shit.”
“The skull is an inspired touch,” Mustang says sardonically, pissed enough to openly bitch.
“Nice of him to make his followers identifiable only by the complicated and highly involved
test of rolling up one’s sleeves.”
“It’s not like they need to care about stealth either, when their government’s already hanging
off their dicks and doing such a great PR job for them,” Ed says in disgust. Lust didn’t have it
smack-damn in the middle of her tits because it was a fashion statement. The homunculi
didn’t care who saw it: anyone who did and knew what it meant was dead meat anyway.
Even Greed was cocky about it, though that was just Greed being Greed and not giving a
shit.
“What do you mean by verity serum,” Hughes says to Lemons. “It’s used in interrogations?”
“It’s how Malfoy was acquitted,” Pirate grunts. “Three drops of verity serum will have you
singing the truth no matter what defenses you have in place - unless you have an active dark
mark and Voldie’s protecting you.”
“Malfoy was able to lie, in essence because he was magically prohibited from telling the
truth,” Lemons says. “He is very wealthy, very well connected, and very politically active.
Even if he weren’t critical to the dark lord’s operations and thus protected, we cannot move
directly against him. He has spent fourteen years establishing a reputation as a victim of the
dark lord, forced to do what he did under imperius, and his personal security is excessive and
spares no expense.”
Rich, connected, political: this is one of lord fuckaroo’s generals, then. Taking out the boss
while leaving this guy to walk free is not an option, and somehow Ed doubts that his
excessively expensive security is going to do much against, say, his entire house burning
down due to a sudden and explosive influx of alchemically ignited oxygen. “Why don’t you
give us his address anyway,” Hughes says, clearly on the same train of thought. “We can talk
more about this… truth serum and the properties of the tattoo when we have a subject to
interrogate. Right now we need to speak with Bones ASAP. Any raids the police has planned,
any executions, any disappearances since the resurrection - she needs to examine that very,
very closely, and determine exactly where the orders are coming from. We may be able to
determine their next move or even potentially the location of the base depending on what
they’re using the government for.”
Because if you’re making philosopher’s stones you’re gonna be killing people, and if there is
some kind of mass array in the works - fuck this shit with a rail spike - then it’ll show in the
pattern of attacks the terrorists have carried out already. Maybe. Hopefully. Ed wants a
fucking drink.
“I will inform her,” Beardy says, just as there’s a knock on the door.
Pirate’s closest, and when he stumps over and opens it it’s Breakfast Lady. “Lunch,” she says,
her gaze traveling around the range of expressions around the room - disturbed to deliberately
poker-faced to disgusted as hell - and adding her own tension to the spectrum. “Is this a bad
time?”
“No, we were just about done,” Mustang says, standing and sweeping his uniform straight.
“Lunch sounds perfect. We’ll join you shortly; I need to speak with my team.”
The way he says it makes it clear the dismissal isn’t optional, and Beardy’s at least smart
enough not to put up a fight. “Lunch indeed,” he says, standing as well and mutating his
armchair back into its original grody mess with a rush of shimmering air and a wave of his
stick. “Thank you, Molly. Roy - I must depart for the ministry to lay the groundwork you
have requested for Hairy, and to pass on your requests to Amelia. We will return here this
evening and give you what information we can. Alastor can contact me for you if there is any
pressing matter.”
Looks like they’re still going to cooperate with the disappear the kid plan, though frankly
they’ve got no way to know exactly what the hell Beardy will be telling who, or what it’ll
lead to. At least the kid will be here with Havoc, so nobody can “accidentally” fake Hairy’s
death so hard he actually dies. “Is there anything else?” Beardy says politely.
“Why yes. Mr. Malfoy’s home address,” Hughes says brightly.
Pirate snorts. “It’s a sodding great mansion with a yard full of peacocks and a gate that says
MALFOY in solid silver letters. It’s a little hard to miss.”
“So you’ll take us then? Excellent,” Hughes says. “We’ll let you know when we’re ready to
make our visit.”
That’s not great, but since the wizards all travel by fucking teleportation it’s probably the best
they’re gonna get. Fuck, they’re seriously at a disadvantage with the teleporting; Ed needs to
get someone to spell Havoc so he can see about going out and getting them some of the local
cars.
Pirate looks about as happy to be pressganged as field trip chaperone as they are to need him.
“And much good may it do you. The bastard’s slippery as a greased eel. You’re better off
targeting Voldy first.”
“We’ll keep that in mind,” Mustang says, smiling his get the fuck out of my office smile.
“Thank you, we’ll be joining you shortly.”
“Until later, then,” Beardy says, inclining his head and sweeping out the door, and the rest of
the wizards follow him, Psycho and Mustache both sending a couple of last glances over their
shoulders.
The door shuts behind them. Mustang folds his arms and moves to stand on the other side of
Ed so that they can all see each other in a grim little circle. “So,” Hughes says.
“Reinforcements,” Hawkeye says.
“Fifth Company East is deployment-ready and closest to the border,” Mustang says. “But
anything from Amestris will take a week to get here on physical distance alone -”
“- and never on bureaucracy,” Hughes finishes. “They’ll have to go through Xing. The
Emperor will never allow it, not even as a personal favor.”
“If we inform his Imperial Highness of the growing threat at his border via a request for
medical aid for a child,” Mustang says, thoughtful, “we may get Xingese troops instead.”
“And then owe Ling Yao anyway for the rest of your days,” Hughes says.
Mustang shoots him a look. “After we do him the favor of alerting him to the threat
practically on his doorstep? He helped us against the homunculi before.”
“Because he wanted a stone, and then because Bradley ripped his girlfriend’s goddamn arm
off,” Hughes says bluntly. “And he was just Ling Yao then. Right now even if we send
Edward to bat his eyelashes and ask pretty please we’re still dealing with the entire Dragon
Throne, and do you want to play that game? Because I don’t.”
“I’m going to be playing that game regardless, Maes,” Mustang growls, then adds, to prop up
the pathetic veneer of deniability re: whose ass is landing in the Fuhrer’s seat next in front of
Jones and Arget, “Reinforcements have to come through Xing no matter what. We’ll be
talking to Emperor Yao anyway.”
“State Alchemists,” Hawkeye suggests. “Through the intelligence courier routes. Strong
Arm, Stardust, Electric Storm.”
“We can maybe get you those three, but any more and we’re sightseeing the inside of a
Xingese border prison,” Hughes says. “Not that we can afford more combat alchemists
anyway. We’d be pulling Strong Arm and Electric Storm from Ishval as it is.”
And Ishval needs Armstrong and Kendra both, seeing as they can set up buildings and
electric systems in a third of the time it takes four different sets of construction and
engineering crews; the earthquake last month set back the reconstruction efforts by nearly
half a year and the province is still essentially in a state of emergency due to ruptured water
supply. Kozlova’s in Mustang’s pocket too, but she’s on the Drachman border and will take
four times as long to get here. Ed doesn’t trust any of the other combat-certified alchemists as
far as he can throw them, and Mustang doesn’t trust them as far as he can throw them, which
is a lot less further than Ed can.
Mustang must be having the same thought, because he turns to Ed. “Do we need
reinforcements?”
Give me a solution, Fullmetal. Ed exhales hard and presses both sets of fingertips into the
pressure points around his sinuses. He’s got a pack of soul bits that might be homunculi with
various unknown powers, a kid who may or may not have a piece of the head terrorist’s soul
bound to his brain, a handful of allies who are either okay with killing the kid or too dumb to
see their leader is going to let it happen through deliberate negligence, a totally corrupt
government that sends fear monsters after kids or at least covers for people who do, and it’s
all adding up to a brewing genocide at the behest of an alchemically powerful madman
pulling the strings of an entire society. It’s the goddamn Promised Day all over again.
So, all firepower to the table, then.
Only it’s all on the other side of Xing, or comes with an imperial price tag attached. Hughes
was right - if it comes to it Ed will hit up Ling and tell him to come help them kick ass, but
while Ling and Emperor Yao might wear the same underpants they aren’t exactly the same
person. Not anymore. And Emperor Yao might decide that the way to pacify his fractious
outer provinces is to organize his country into a nice unifying invasion of the wizard lands.
Even if Ling doesn’t decide that, he knows it’ll be Mustang in the Central Office sometime in
the next five years, and he is not a guy dumb enough to let that opportunity go - and with
Ed’s luck, he’s just as likely to demand Ed on loan for a year in imperial service as he is to
demand more favorable tarriffs from Amestrisan trade.
Fucking politics. That’s not Ed’s job. Fuck. Okay. One thing at a time. Macro shit aside.
Think small scale. What do they need for the op.
Well, if what they’re dealing with is a homunculus like Father, what they need is a fucking
airstrike.
Ed exhales again and shuts his eyes. What the wizards consider unkillable isn’t what they
consider unkillable. Those two dementers were dangerous, sure, but they died, objectively,
without too much of a fuss. That’s their big bad war weapons: That was what got sent to
assassinate Hairy; it’s what might get sent again.
If something killed your unkillable weapons, what you’d send after would be something
worse.
Okay, enough with the catastrophizing. Assume, just for now, that lord whoopsie-doodle is
not like Father. Dangerous assumption, but one, this guy’s not quietly biding his time until
shit’s too late to stop him, he’s parading around calling himself Lord Etcetera and naming his
terrorist group death eaters. Two, he did get KO’d by magic rebound or backfire or whatever
and that apparently took him out for fourteen years. Three, the fact that he was trying to get
philosopher’s stones assumes that he didn’t have philosopher’s stones, and though that’s very
likely changed now - bodily restoration is pretty fuckin’ strong evidence - if that only
happened a few months ago, he’s going to be nowhere near as well established as Father
was.
The basic plan of action stays the same. They need to raid the base. To raid the base they
need to find it, and for that they’ll need to capture and interrogate whoever - what ever - gets
sent to murder and-or kidnap Hairy. Or when they raid the Malfoy guy’s house, whichever
they end up doing first. Interrogation is up to Hughes; capture, Ed can do. He’ll ram up some
asphalt again, Mustang can pull the oxygen, whatever’s trapped inside will pass out,
whoopty-hoo.
If that doesn’t work they’ll try something else. They’ll get an idea of capabilities and
defenses through all that; catastrophize then.
Lord whatsit. Mustang thinks a kill from a distance is the best bet and he’s not wrong.
Hawkeye doesn’t have her rifle with her so it’ll be Mustang, so long as Ed can get him line of
sight. And so long as there isn’t any magic armor or shielding or whatever. That’s a big
question mark and Ed doesn’t fucking like it, doesn’t like that they know basically jack shit -
when Ed finds their base they’ll have to go in, Mustang won’t just torch the building without
making sure there aren’t any hostages or anything inside, and if they’re going in they need to
know what they’re getting into. If Ed was a magic terrorist with a secret base he’d not only
have every single thing booby trapped down to the toilet flushers, there’d be a damn moat
full of crocodiles and a motherfucking drawbridge, too, and he’s not about to assume the
terrorists are any less nasty or inventive with their defenses than he’d be, not with lives on the
line.
If they get the terrorists out in the open, away from their grounded defenses, that’s better odds
but still fucking ass because even if they ambush the group in convoy, Ed has to assume that
even if none of them is a homunculus, all of them can still fucking teleport . And that’s on top
of whatever goddamn combat magic they’ll be shown this evening . Mustang would have to
obliterate everything in the kill zone wall to fuckin’ wall to make sure nobody would be
popping up behind them, and that might not even be possible, depending on the terrain. No,
long-range sniper fire really is their best bet. Ed needs to get Hawkeye a rifle. Possible
homunculi; Ed needs to get Hawkeye explosive rounds.
But even then she might only get the one shot. There’s only one of her, more’s the pity, and
even if lord ravioli is only human and she takes his head off right from the word go, what’s
stopping one of his pals from teleporting right behind her and firing back? Mustang’s range is
half of Hawkeye’s with her fuckoff-huge Kerchatka 82, so attackers would have to get closer
for Mustang to be able to back her up. Hawkeye’s survival would depend on the wizards not
being able to track where the bullet came from, because even if Ed, Mustang and Havoc were
all covering her on high alert, teleporting is real fuckin’ hard to defend against. Any defense
would have to be area-effect, centered on themselves, and anything that would drop a
teleporting surprise attacker would affect them, too.
There’s just too many unknowns, on top of an already dangerous wizard ability that’s freely
available to anyone down to random seventeen year olds. Smartypants talked about wards
that prevented teleporting, but Ed’s not about to trust his team’s lives to strangers using
strange magic that they don’t even understand. He needs his own guarantees here. And if
what they’re up against does turn out to be a Promised Day-scale problem, then he can’t
afford to not kick with everything he has.
He needs magic out of the picture.
“You know what? Fuck this,” Ed says out loud, dropping his hands and opening his eyes. “If
we have to do things the hard way, so do they. Just get me Al.”
Mustang’s eyebrows rise very slightly, just commentary, no surprise. “Not that Alphonse isn’t
formidable, but is that all the reinforcements you were imagining?”
“If we do it right, yeah,” Ed retorts. “Do you want this done in half the time or not? Get me
Al. We’re gonna turn their magic off.”
And oh, Ed fucking hates that one of his favorite looks on Mustang is the goddamn Good
Dog, Fullmetal: deeply approving, mildly impressed. “Can you?”
“You fucking said it. Radiation means measurable emissions,” Ed says. “Identify the type and
I can negate it, shield against it, whatever. All I need to know is what it is. We got our
alchemy turned off that one time. No reason we can’t do the same.”
“I doubt we have time to establish an array around the entire country,” Mustang says, but he
sounds thoughtful.
“We don’t need to. We just set it in our ambush ground.” Ed rubs his nose tiredly. “If we’re
dealing with a homunculus I’m not taking chances.”
“And with our allies here having things so very well in hand,” Mustang says dryly. “I wonder
why exactly no one saw fit to mention earlier that their Snape gentleman used to be one of
the ‘dark lord’s inner circle’.”
“And the fucking… you heard what the fuck Beardy was saying, right? They’re gonna kill
that kid,” Ed says. “Or at least stand by while he gets killed. No way was posting one loser
guard an accident. I’m keeping Havoc on him until we can figure out whatever’s going on
with his soul.”
“We may have to move on the Malfoy individual first,” Mustang says. “Given their
descriptions he would be a primary target anyway. Raiding a civilian’s private residence will
eliminate any element of surprise we had, of course, and may destroy any chance of
presenting ourselves formally to their head of state as anything other than the advance guard
of an Amestrisan war delegation.” He sighs. “Just to be clear, our goal is not to start another
war. If only because requesting to move troops through Xing will get us laughed out of the
embassy, if not give us two wars outright.”
“Yeah, I’d rather quietly take some terrorists prisoners instead, too,” Hughes says. “We need
the intel, we’re nearly flying blind here as it is. That reminds me - Arget, remember that little
thought experiment you did about information theory and troubleshooting compromised
systems?”
“Yes sir?”
“Congratulations, it’s going live. Make me one of your little matrices for a wizard who can’t
tell the truth about where their evil terrorist boss is.”
“Yessir.”
“We’re not telling the wizards the truth about what me and Al will be working on either,” Ed
warns the room. “Their opsec is like, fucking zero. If they ask tell ‘em it’s for Al to give
Hairy an exorcism or whatever.”
“And if your proposed array doesn’t work, Fullmetal?” Mustang says.
Ed shoots Mustang a dirty look. He knows they have to plan for worst case scenario here, but
his arrays fucking work, thanks. “Then I tell Mei to tell Ling to invade fuckin’ wizard world
if she doesn’t want her prince charming to end up partying like it’s the Promised Day all over
again.”
Mustang nods, expression distinctly satisfied. “Hawkeye?”
Hawkeye stands. “I’ll see which of our hosts is available to play escort to the Divide.”
Chapter End Notes
team amestris: ya ok lol u guys have terrorists we get it, it’s not like u guys have a super
powerful immortal whackjob who split his soul into seven weaponized pieces and is
pulling the strings of your government to organize genocide while using philosopher’s
stones
Wizards: we have exactly that, actually
team amestris: .....RECALIBRATING
Chapter 19
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s good Mustang dispatches Hawkeye to get Al, because Ed’s not sure he would handle
anyone else going to get him and Mustang has to stay here. Jones and Arget are great and all
but Ed doesn’t know them like he does Mustang’s team, and with Havoc babysitting and
Hughes limited in physical scope ever since his coma it’s basically Ed or Hawkeye.
Mustache is the one who volunteers to escort her, when Ed sticks his head in the kitchen and
tells the wizards they need a teleporter; Beardy, Lemons and Pirate are already gone, and he’s
the only other adult in there besides Breakfast Lady, Psycho and Havoc, wedged in the corner
surrounded by the kids. Ed takes a second to eye the food - lots of mushy brown stuff,
potatoes heavily involved judging by the smell - before ducking back out to see Hawkeye to
the door.
Given she’ll be teleporting out of here with Mustache it’s a pointless gesture more than
anything, but still. “We’ll try to return within eight hours, barring any specific preparations
Alphonse may want to make,” Hawkeye tells Ed while Mustang finishes writing his handoff
letters. “Is there anything you’d like me to pass on to him, Edward?”
“Yeah, tell him to bring his biggest asskicking stick,” Ed says. Hawkeye would fill Al in on
everything they knew; anything Ed could add he’d say in person when they got here. “Oh,
and his medical stuff, I guess. Whatever they might have for, I dunno, qi problems.”
Hawkeye’s mouth quirks slightly. “I’ll let him know.”
Mustang comes out of their base room and holds out several folded sheets of paper.
“Guangshi magistrate and garrison commander, Maes’ contact at that fish market, Mei
Chang,” he counts off, handing them over to Hawkeye. “You may want to deliver to Maes’
person first. And leave town before the magistrate reads through and has any bright ideas
about detaining you to ask questions.”
Hawkeye’s eyes narrow slightly. “What the fuck did you write in there?” Ed demands.
“Just appraising the Emperor of the situation,” Mustang says innocently. “Simply letting him
know that we’ve got everything under control here and that in the wildly unlikely event that
we do not return, he should brick up his boundary crossing and treat anything that tries to
come through as a problem solvable only by firebomb. Though not in so many words, of
course.”
Hawkeye narrows her eyes further and Ed opens his mouth, but Mustache takes that moment
to show up at the end of the hall. “Whatever you tell Mei, she’s gonna act on it,” Ed warns
instead of saying she’ll either show up with Al or book it back to the capital and put Ling in a
headlock until he starts some Imperial problem-solving. Which, not that Ed’s gonna
complain. One alkahestrist is great but two alkahestrists is better, and Mei is one hell of an
alkahestrist to have on your side.
“I fully depend upon it,” Mustang replies, nodding in greeting at Mustache and then smiling
at Hawkeye. “Safe travels, Colonel.”
She salutes him in her crisp I better not have to bail your ass out, bitch way as she tucks the
letters in her jacket. “Yes sir.”
“See ya,” Ed says, saluting her too - correctly, even, since she’s technically his actual CO and
it’s always fun to salute other people in front of Mustang and watch him suppress a sigh,
glare or twitch - and getting out of Mustache’s way.
Mustache nods at them both, only eyeballing them a little as he goes to stand by Hawkeye
and offers her… an empty coffee mug. “It’s a port key,” he explains to their collective blank
stares.
“Like the flowerpot was?” Ed says sourly.
“Likely, yes. Port keys are generally made out of innocuous objects to keep them disguised -
often trash, actually, to keep muggles from picking them up.”
“From picking them… do you just leave them lying around?” Ed demands. “Holy fuck, you
do. Pirate got the flowerpot out of some shed.”
Mustache looks kind of uncomfortable. “From what I understand that checkpoint is in a very
remote area.”
“Some kid is gonna go playing explorer and accidentally teleport himself into your
bathroom,” Ed says flatly.
“The office of port key affairs in the department of magical transportation does handle a few
of those cases every year,” Mustache admits. “I suppose it’s part of why port keys are so
closely regulated.”
Everybody’s eyes go back to the coffee mug. “When you say regulated,” Ed says, “do you
mean, you need an ID to buy one, or is it more ‘everything about it is monitored and
tracked’?”
“Ah… no, no, we don’t have to be worried about anything like that. This one is,” Mustache
coughs slightly, “technically illegal.”
“Well at least there’s that,” Ed says, only half-sarcastically. Thank fuck the wizards are
starting to get the hang of “government trying to kill you = stop doing what the government
tells you to do”.
“It functions the same?” Hawkeye says, eyeing the mug.
“Yes, when you touch it we’ll be taken to the checkpoint by the barrier.”
“Good,” Hawkeye says, nodding at Mustang and Ed, and when she touches the mug they
disappear with a tingle and a crack.
Mustang and Ed both stand there for a second, arms folded, looking at the place where
Hawkeye and Mustache now aren’t. “Armstrong’s gonna owe you big for this,” Ed says
aloud. “Shit, Armstrong’s gonna owe me for this, that’s how big.”
“You’d better believe I’m going to collect,” Mustang mutters, then, “I need Havoc to evaluate
the ambush site with me.”
Ed makes a face. “Yeah, fine, I’ll watch the fucking kid. I’m gonna be taking readings the
rest of the day anyway, see what I can have ready by the time Al shows up.”
“Best of luck.” Mustang sighs. “Lunch?”
Ed makes another, more eloquent face as they start back down the hall. “I’d say go out and
get our own food but Hughes wants to talk to them more. Not sure what the fuck we’ll get
with a kitchen fulla kids and only one adult left who was even in the meeting. Who the fuck
is Psycho anyway? Did he even get introduced to you?”
“Psycho?” Mustang says, then, when Ed makes hair gestures and a theatrical scowl, “Ah.
Yes, one Serious Black. It’s his house we’re staying in.”
“This apparently super cursed, shoulda been condemned fucking house? Guess I can’t say
I’m shocked.”
“He’s also apparently an escaped convict.”
“What! Oh my god, I thought that was prison hair. Fuckin’ called it.”
“He does seem to care about the child, at least,” Mustang says clinically. “Though perhaps
it’s only pity, given we didn’t exactly hear any complaints about ‘destroying’ him.”
“Parents dead,” Ed observes. “Really doesn’t want to go back to his relatives. State’s
compromised, not that calling child services is ever a great fuckin’ choice.” Ed cannot
fucking imagine what the hell these people consider a working foster care system, let alone
an orphanage.
“He’ll age out soon. Seventeen, yes?”
“Yeah. Guess two years’s not that bad. Could be worse.”
“Yes, he could be twelve and have a little brother,” Mustang says, corner of his mouth
lifting.
“Ha! We should be so fuckin’ lucky. These daffodils could use another me running around,”
Ed mutters.
“Yes, then surely we’d be able to just leave it all to him and go home,” Mustang says dryly.
“If you’re going to be running experiments you may want to hand off babysitting to one of
Hughes’ people, by the way. If the boy really is a leak we don’t want to tip off the enemy in
any capacity, and even if he doesn’t understand what you’re working on someone else
looking through his eyes might.”
Ed frowns as they reenter the base camp room. Arget’s going to be busy formulating an
interrogation strategy for Hughes - she’s already writing busily at the small side table - and
Ed assumed Jones would be helping with fleecing the wizards of whatever passed for intel in
their little vigilante daycare operation. Hairy’s old enough that Ed can theoretically plant him
in a corner with a book or something and not have to construct a baby gate enclosure, but
Mustang’s right, him seeing anything is a security risk.
Well, maybe Ed will just make him face the wall or whatever.
Hughes is standing over the coffee table with a couple of disappointingly thin dossiers open
on top of it, eyes narrowed at the papers inside, tapping a pen on his chin. “Well, boys and
girls, we are in the real deep shit,” he says thoughtfully. “Our resources are limited and likely
to stay that way, and what we know is a whole lot of fuckall. Our hosts control most if not all
of our flow of information, and the bad news is, they’re a pack of galloping idiots.”
Mustang sighs, crossing his arms on the other side of the coffee table. “What are we starting
with?”
“A map,” Hughes says, still tapping. “Because if we do happen to be standing in the middle
of a nationwide array that could go off and kill us at any time, I want to know. And figure out
what the safe zone is, if there even is one. Without official records we’ll have to start plotting
any incidents based off what these wizards can remember, though ideally we’ll at least be
able to have some newspapers.” He pauses. “Though that’ll need a wizard to read for us.
Damn.”
Jones, on one of the couches, glances briefly at Ed before looking back to Hughes. “One of
the kids would probably be happy to help,” he offers. “She seemed pretty interested in what
we were doing, with the readings. If we asked her to read from some newspapers for us she’d
probably do it.”
Hughes caught the glance and is now also looking at Ed. “Hmm,” he says critically. Ed
narrows his eyes right back. “Well, we do want them to want to tell us things. Roy, do your
thing, will you? And Ed, take your jacket off.”
“Why?” Ed says suspiciously.
“Because you’re more approachable without it,” Mustang says as he starts undoing his own
uniform jacket. “We need information. They’re civilians and we’re foreigners; we have very
little authority or social capital here and scaring people makes them more likely to clam up.
You catch more flies with honey, and so on.”
“Gross,” Ed complains, but he pulls off his jacket. Mustang and Hughes have been right
about this kind of thing enough times that it’s better to do what they say when it comes to
asskissing. “I don’t fuckin’ do honey, I hope you know.”
“We’re aware,” Mustang says dryly, draping his own jacket over his shoulders in that stupid
cape thing he does and now on to rolling up his sleeves.
“You just go ahead and continue to be your inimitable self,” Hughes says brightly, twirling
his pen like it’s one of his daggers. “Just with your jacket off.”
“And do something about those,” Mustang adds, nodding at Ed’s bracers. “They stand out too
much and they don’t look like anything else you’re wearing.”
Ed glances down at his bracers, which are a dull steel grey with some brown leather padding
underneath, then at the rest of what he’s wearing, which is, as always, black on black on
black, minus the white gloves. “You’re making me take them off because they don’t match
my outfit?”
“They’re weapons, Fullmetal, and they look it. Take ‘em off.”
“Oh, but the knives can stay?” Ed says sarcastically, tapping his fingers together to transmute
his bracers open enough to tug them off, jerking pointedly at a strap of his shoulder harness
with one hand. “Pretty sure they’re a lot more likely to recognize all the sharp pointy shit as a
fuckin’ weapon than some arm guards.”
Jones coughs. “No, they - the knives work. They’re, ah. Part of the look.”
“What look,” Ed demands, folding his bracers in the jacket and tossing it down on top of his
pack.
“Edward,” Hughes says, going over to put both hands on Ed’s shoulders and look him
sincerely in the eyes, “we’re trying to make you look cool. Just let it happen.”
Ed stares at him for what’s maybe too long a moment. “This is why I’m never ever ever
joining Intel.”
“And we’re all very sad about that,” Hughes informs him solemnly, turning him around by
the shoulders and presenting him to Jones, Mustang and Arget. “Well? What do we think?”
Arget is entirely red in the face again. Ed can’t blame her; Hughes distributes embarrassment
the way parades throw out confetti and Ed doesn’t even have to work in his department.
Jones gives a double thumbs up.
“It’ll do,” Mustang says critically.
Ed scowls. “Not cool enough for you?”
“You could stand to do something about the hair,” Mustang allows, like he expects a fuckin’
generosity award for the statement.
“Touch my hair and die screaming,” Ed suggests to Hughes, whose hands had worryingly
lifted up off Ed’s shoulders at the hair comment.
“You may not like our methods but they work,” Hughes says cheerfully as he walks around to
face Ed again, undaunted as ever by any kind of attempt at rebuke. “We’ll have them singing
to us in no time.”
“It’s a little late for you to feign politeness, but do try not to pick a fight,” Mustang tells Ed,
carefully ruffling his own hair with both hands. “And as for the girl - which one was
interested, Sergeant?”
“Brown hair, brown skin, about this tall,” Jones provides. “Didn’t catch her name.”
“Smile at her at least once, Fullmetal, when you ask if she’d like to help you with your
project.”
They want him to fucking schmooze Smartypants? “I am not flirting with a teenaged girl!”
“That’s not flirting, it’s basic courtesy,” Mustang says, unperturbed. “Would you prefer to
growl and snap at her while asking the same?”
Ed bares his teeth. “It’s still skeevy.”
“It’s work, Fullmetal. I’ve got - what did you call him? Ah yes, psycho. And then moody, and
the ex-terrorist, and both schoolteachers. Would you like to trade?” Mustang says mildly.
Ed can’t help the reflexive yuck that shows up on his face at the thought of having to get cute
with those freaks. “Exactly,” Mustang says. “Smile at the girl and be grateful.”
“Conning teenagers into doing your grunt work for free,” Ed mutters, rubbing at his bare
forearms. “Man, today is just a rerun carousel of past fuckups, isn’t it.”
“You were paid fair and square, Fullmetal. Quite highly, if I recall.”
“Stop, you’re gonna give me a trauma flashback to all your fucking budget meetings.”
“I had to sit through you being at those budget meetings just as much as you had to sit
through the meetings themselves,” Mustang says pointedly.
“Great, so we both deserve worker’s comp, fuckin’ congratulations,” Ed grumbles. “Ugh. I
guess if kids are mixed in anyway might as well put them to work doing something useful.”
“Using the kids as translators also gives us better chances of getting unfiltered information,
as they’re less likely to dissemble or lie outright,” Hughes points out, glasses glinting as he
packs up his dossiers. “Or even know there’s something worth lying about.”
“Yes, the one advantage of working with teenagers,” Mustang says, eyes rolling skyward
briefly before he heads for the door. “Naivete is just what one should look for in one’s
subordinates.”
“You saying past me was easy to trick?” Ed says as he follows, just because he’s never going
to be done sawing at Mustang about literally everything to do with the military in general and
Ed’s involvement with it in specific.
“Oh, as if anything about you could ever be called easy, Fullmetal,” Mustang says, smirking
faintly over his shoulder as he pushes open the kitchen door.
Chapter End Notes
ed: are u seriously thotting me out for the cause rn
mustang, powdering his own cheeks: not JUST you, fullmetal. Now get out there and
shake what your mamma gave you
Chapter 20
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
All the kids are still in here, though it looks like they’re on the scrape-the-plate-and-sop-thedregs end of lunch. Havoc, on the short side of the table, is surrounded, with Psycho across
from Hairy and Breakfast Lady by the kitchen counter rummaging in a purse. Everybody
looks up when they come in and all conversation stops, which is an annoyingly familiar
phenomenon. Ed no longer eats in any military cafeteria because that shit is only fun the first
couple of times.
“Hey chief,” Havoc says, friendly enough that he’s evidently forgotten all about counting
cards; not a man to hold grudges, Havoc. He’s also starting to grin, though, so it’s maybe less
forgiveness and more recognition that they’re up to something super stupid and Mustang’s
also stuck executing his own schemes for once. “Hey boss.”
Ed grunts. It’d be more satisfying if Mustang didn’t enjoy this shit. “Hello, Havoc. Hello,
Molly,” Mustang says to Breakfast Lady in his you like me voice, smiling at her. “I apologize
for our rudeness in not coming to the table sooner. I hope we aren’t too late to finally get a
chance to try your cooking.”
“Oh, no, there’s plenty left,” she says immediately; the way she’s looking back at Mustang,
it’s obvious he got to her from the word go. She does give Ed kind of a weird look, though,
and Ed starts scowling back before remembering what they’re here for and trying for a smile
instead. It definitely feels too tight to be natural, but for some reason it makes her whole face
soften at him in - pity? Again? For fuck’s sake.
“I was just about to head out, actually, and see about more groceries,” she says, glancing
between him and Mustang. “Seeing as we’ll be a full house for a while yet. Is there anything
in particular you would prefer?”
“We wouldn’t dream of directing you in your own kitchen, Molly,” Mustang demurs. “You’d
know far better than we what’s available, in any case.”
“Are you sure? It’s no trouble,” Breakfast Lady says, eating it up. “Really. And - Elric?”
“Yeah,” Ed says warily.
“We didn’t get a chance to thank you, earlier, for what you did with those dementers,” she
says, tone a lot warmer than it was this morning. “However you did it doesn’t change that
you saved my children’s lives. Thank you.”
“Uh,” Ed says, caught one hundred percent off guard and seriously not sure how to take that
given she’s still looking at him with pity. “You’re… welcome.”
“Sit down, eat,” she tells him, apparently realizing that any drawing this out any more is only
gonna make it worse. “Everything’s still hot, we’ve really lucked out to have found the selfheating china here.”
Whatever the fuck that means. “Thanks,” Ed says uncomfortably, going for the chair opposite
Havoc. There’s a weird kind of silence after that, and when Ed glances back suspiciously he
finds Breakfast Lady staring at him - no, at his knife harness. When he turned his back to her
she must’ve gotten an eyeful of all the sharp pointy shit back there.
Well, at least that look ain’t pity anymore. Ed flicks a told you so glance at Mustang and sits
down. “Smells good,” he offers, deliberately casual, and that snaps her out of it.
“You just help yourself, dear,” she says. “It’s bangers and mash.”
Whatever the fuck that is. “Oooo, something smells good,” Hughes echoes from the door,
Jones and Arget filing in behind him; they’re all in on Operation Sleaze Your Way To The
Facts too, apparently, because they’ve all lost their jackets and Hughes has way too many
buttons undone at the collar. Arget’s in a regulation white button-up and Jones has one of the
long-sleeved undershirts that were basically the only approved uniform item Ed could
remotely stand to wear until Hawkeye introduced him to her high-collar tac shortsleeves (Ed
hasn’t looked back since. Breathable, stretchy, soft enough not to irritate his stupid shoulder
scar even with the knife harness pressing down over it, comes in black, black, black and also
black. The most perfect garment invented since the guy who first looked at leather (black)
and said “I wonder if I can make pants out of that?”).
“Oh, hello,” Breakfast Lady tells them. “You all just help yourselves, I’m popping out for a
moment. All of you, behave,” she says to the kids in a much stricter tone. “We’ll be cleaning
when I get back, we only got as far as the upstairs drawing room last time.”
“Aw, mum,” one of the redheads whines.
“Don’t you mum me! You wanted to help the order so much, well get helping. I’ll be back in
an hour or so,” she adds to Mustang, back to her hostess voice. “There’s tea in the kettle, just
ask serious to get creature for you if you need anything.”
“Thank you, we appreciate it,” Mustang tells her sincerely, smiling like she didn’t just remind
them all they’re in goddamn slaver society and the locals are all fuckin’ cool with it. Ed can’t
even say shit either, ‘cause ass fuck it, Hughes and Mustang aren’t wrong about needing these
freaks to want to tell them stuff.
Fuck this place, seriously.
Ed mechanically loads potato and accompanying substances onto his plate while everyone
else sits down around him, Breakfast Lady shouldering her purse and saying her goodbyes
before going to the hall and crack ing out of there. Is it rude to teleport directly out of
whatever room you’re in? Ed snorts to himself as he pulls off his gloves, then taps his hands
together and transmutes the heavy silver fork into a pair of chopsticks. Al in his nagging had
succeeded in inculcating an unbreakable habit by linking it to food.
Jones, across from him, eyes him curiously as the brief crackle of transmutation dies. “Not a
fork man?”
Ed, now head down over the plate and mouth conveyor belting potato, pauses for a second to
hold the chopsticks up, clack them and spin one over his thumb. “Ffyssical ‘ferapy.”
“Still?” Hughes asks, sounding concerned.
Ed shrugs, swallowing his mouthful with some effort. “Habit. Al.” Besides, as stabby as forks
are, Ling and Lan Fan had taught Ed to respect and fear the chopstick; in community-style
eating it’s hands down the most efficient way to grab and keep anything you want to be able
to get in your mouth before it’s gone. Now it’s his default whenever not eating alone, because
part of how Al and Winry decided his arm rehab was gonna go was making him defend the
food on his plate with his life.
Psycho and the kids all seem perfectly happy to sit there and watch them eat, which is mildly
creepy in a voyeuristic sort of way, but it’d take more than that to keep Ed from food and the
potato stuff isn’t half bad. Kinda bland, but given he spent the past week and a half eating
nothing but Xingese pretty much everything is gonna be bland in comparison. Havoc finished
eating with the kids and seems pretty content to sit around chewing his cig too, though it
occurs to Ed that Havoc missed the part of the meeting when they discovered they’ve landed
smack in the middle of a shitty wizard rerun of their collective worst nightmare scenario.
Well, he can’t exactly say hey, remember that time you got impaled, paralyzed and nearly
died? We’re doing that again! Because that’s kind of a mood killer. Mustang can have the
honor of dropping that bomb. Ed can fill in on some other stuff he missed, though. “Hey
Havoc,” he says, putting his chopsticks down to plant a hand on the table and lean in.
“Unicorns are real.”
Havoc blinks at him. “... I.. don’t know that codephrase, boss.”
“No, I mean they’re real here. Like real real. They got fuckin’ unicorns the same way they
got fuckin’ ghosts and werewolves.”
“Huh.” Havoc’s brow slowly creases as this sinks in. He looks down at his empty plate,
frowning, then his eyes unfocus slightly. “Wonder what unicorn steak tastes like.”
Ed feels his own eyes widen. “Shit,” he says wonderingly. “Probably like horse. Right? I
mean, it’s basically just magic horse.” He twists to look at the kids. “Unicorns are the horses
with the horns, right? We’re talking about the same thing here?”
The kids all nod, staring at them like they’re hypnotized. “Horse doesn’t taste that great,”
Havoc says, disappointed. “And the meat’s too tough, all stringy and no fat. Though I guess
for something like unicorn you’d put in the effort. Tenderize, marinade, cook it low and slow
-”
“You’ve eaten horse?” Not A Twin says.
“Those two are both from the East,” Hughes says cheerfully. “If you look close you can still
see the hay in their hair.”
“Shut it, Central boy,” Ed tells him, pointing with the chopsticks. “You wouldn’t last three
minutes in farm country. Horse is famine food anyway, nobody’d waste it on a city fucker
like you.”
“It’s pretty good in stew,” Havoc muses. “Absolutely shit jerky, though. I’d rather eat boots.”
Ed can’t help his cackle. “It’s better than boot leather, you can know that for free. Even
boiled soft that shit is vile.”
“You’ve eaten boots?” a twin says delightedly.
“Just the one,” Ed says. None of the rest of the kids look as excited by this as the twins are.
“What? Wasn’t shit else to eat. It was that or start trading limbs for dinner, and we were
already playing with a few missing cards from that deck.”
“Was this… on campaign?” Jones asks delicately.
“Promised Day,” Ed tells him, because why not, him and Arget are in the shit now with the
rest of them, playing Promised Day Two: Wizards Can Teleport edition, and Hughes clearly
trusts them; besides, it’s not like any of this particular bullshit is gonna be in any way
tactically relevant to any potentially telepathically eavesdropping terrorists. “Me and Ling got
stuck in… well, it’s a long story, but there wasn’t shit there besides me, him and knee-deep
blood, so. We hadda fuckin’ eat something.”
“Ah,” Arget says faintly. “That’s why… ah.”
“Yeah, that’s why we can dangle Ed in front of Emperor Yao and expect to get anything other
than a deportation order,” Hughes says. “They shared a precious meal together one time out
of Ed’s boot. With a side of knee-deep blood sauce, presumably.”
“Ew, no,” Ed recoils, disgusted. “That’s floor blood, full of hell knows what the fuck. That’s
fucking gross.”
“Knee deep floor blood,” the twins chorus, looking disturbingly pleased by this fact.
“Anything can taste good if you get hungry enough,” Psycho speaks up, eyeing Ed up with a
challenging spark in his gaze. “Rat started being pretty tasty after a while.”
“Totally not worth it if you’ve got literally anything else,” Ed dismisses. “Rodents suck. Too
fast and small to be worth the energy of catching, high likelihood of disease transmission, and
all the tiny fuckin’ bones are such a pain in the ass. Bugs are way better.” He pauses, reflects,
and adds, “If you have salt.”
“Bugs,” the twins chorus happily.
“Roasted cricket is actually really good,” Jones admits. “Some avocado, some goat cheese,
chop in some onion, some tomato and garlic - that’s an appetizer right there. Gourmet.”
“And you South guys call us Easterners weird,” Havoc says in genial disgust.
“You’re trying honey fried silkworm when we head back through Guangshi,” Ed tells him.
“That’ll change your tune. Fuck, that night market had fuckin’ everything.” Buckets of fish
roe, spiced lobster covered in chili oil, charcoal-grilled corn, ginger syrup dumplings, fried
seahorse on a stick… Ed feels his mouth begin to water. “Live crabs the size of my head.
Damn. You know what, the rest of you can head on back to Central after, I’m staying there.”
“I suppose we’ll just send for you when a new all-you-can-eat opens in Central,” Mustang
says dryly. “One that hasn’t been warned about you yet.”
It occurs to Ed that telling people he ate boot might not be the best way to get in nice with the
wizards, but Mustang isn’t giving him any of the outwardly bland looks that mean holy
fucking shit you trainwreck or stop right now before I do something drastic, Edward, so
presumably it is working. “Don’t think you’re not gonna try the silkworm too, bastard,” Ed
tells him. “No leading from the rear on this one.”
“I’ve had it,” Mustang says amusedly, giving a single lazy gesture at his own face: right,
yeah, him and Hughes both have at least one Xingan in their family tree somewhere.
“Scorpion on a stick was a festival day treat, growing up. There’s a shop in Central in the
western temple district that does them, you know, only about twenty minutes from base. Fifty
cenz for a whole skewer.”
“What, seriously?”
“Jiāoquān and tanghulu too. Corner of 18th and Riviere, next to the pawn shop.”
“No way,” Ed says, briefly struck stupid by the knowledge that he can theoretically get
jiāoquān every day on his way to work. That’s like six blocks from his apartment. “Fuck, I’m
gonna get so fucking fat.”
“On what, tarantula ice cream?” Havoc says fatalistically.
“Oh, no, they wouldn’t have that,” Mustang says, earnest. “They’re a northern Xingese shop.
Fried tarantula is a southern thing.”
“You were all ready to eat unicorn ,” Psycho says, sounding thoroughly entertained; he’s
leaning back in his chair and looking like he wants to give Havoc a jovial backslap, which is
doing a lot for him in the not coming across like a nutcase asshole department. He might even
be good-looking if Ed didn’t know he was a slaver. “Now you’re squeamish about some
spiders? Man up.”
“Hey, a unicorn is a mammal, that’s good honest red meat,” Havoc protests, then pauses. “Is
it a mammal?”
“Please don’t eat anything of a unicorn’s,” Smartypants says, kind of strained. “Drinking
their blood curses you pretty badly.”
Ed puts his chopsticks down again. “Okay, when you say curses, the fuck does it mean?”
Smartypants frowns at him, more in concentration than disapproval. “From what I
understand, it halves your lifespan.”
They all consider this for a moment. “Not worth it for a steak, then,” Havoc concludes.
“Mammal or no mammal.”
“Spiders,” Not A Twin says queasily. By the look on his face he’s still stuck at that particular
conversational junction and would really like to be able to leave. “You’ve eaten… spiders.”
“I’m sure they’re not that bad,” Arget says bravely.
“Not as good as steak,” Ed has to admit. “Though you can't beat bugs if you want crunch.”
Not A Twin goes green. “Eurgh.”
“You ate snails last year and had no complaints,” Smartypants tells him.
“What? No I didn’t!”
“You saw Fleur eating them and started shoveling them in your mouth like they were going to
be taken away by rampaging Nundu.”
“That’s - I don’t remember that!”
“Given you couldn’t remember your own name within ten feet of her, I’m not at all
surprised,” Smartypants says tartly.
“They really were snails, mate,” Hairy tells Not A Twin with something like apology. “I tried
to ask if you were sure you wanted that but you just shouted about cultural exchange and
took the whole bowl.”
“That’s -!” Not A Twin breaks off, recognizing defeat. He eyes Ed balefully. “At least it
wasn’t spiders.”
“They’re fried whole in honey,” Ed tells him. “All the little hairs on the outside get all
caramelized.”
“Eurgh.”
“Sometimes they’re big enough you gotta pick the legs off to fit it whole in your mouth.”
“Oh god. Stop.”
“Crunch crunch,” Ed says pitilessly.
“I was right all along, you are evil,” Not A Twin swears with a pointed finger, pressed back
away into his seat. The twins are grinning enormously and Miss Redhead and Smartypants
are both giggling madly on either side of them, though, which is what Mustang wanted,
probably; even Psycho and Hairy look reluctantly amused.
“Yeah, I’m as bad as they get.” Ed flashes teeth at Not A Twin and then tries not to grit them
as he makes eye contact with Smartypants. “Listen, y’all got any newspapers around? We’re
gonna try and map any incidents of terrorist activity and we could use your help.”
Chapter End Notes
molly weasley: this guy looks like he just broke out of some kind of Miami prison for
violent gay bikers but he DID keep my kids from being soulsuck deathmurdered so like.
It’s probably just because of his Traumatic Childhood and Tortured Backstory
Al, from thousands of miles away: pretty sure my brother would’ve been a high-octane
thot even without any kind of trauma, but that’s kind of you
Chapter 21
Chapter Notes
To any chemistry people: i have no idea what im talking about. Godspeed.
See the end of the chapter for more notes
“I saw a stack of daily profits upstairs,” Miss Redhead says, straightening up. “While we
were cleaning. I don’t know if they were recent, though, they looked pretty old.”
“You wouldn’t be able to read them, th - oh. That’s why you - yes, of course I’ll help,”
Smartypants says, cheeks darkening again.
“Me too,” Miss Redhead says quickly.
“Yeah, me too,” Not A Twin says with an edge of belligerence, after a hostile kind of glance
at Miss Redhead and then Ed. Ed can’t imagine why he’s so quick to jump aboard given he’s
clearly not about to forget the spiders thing, but who cares.
“I could try modifying the translation spell for you, too,” Smartypants offers, glancing
hesitantly at Mustang and the others. “I’m not sure it’ll work, but - worth a try, right?”
“We would very much appreciate that,” Mustang says, manufacturing sincerity like a factory
press.
“A lot of stuff won’t have been reported,” Psycho speaks up, frowning. “The daily profit only
runs what the minister tells them to. The more recent stuff definitely won’t be printed.”
“We’re looking at everything they’ve done, from their initial rise to now,” Hughes says.
“Since we can’t access police records at the moment, any public record will do. Is there a city
hall, a records office, a local library newspaper archive…?”
“Everything official would be at the ministry,” Psycho says, frowning deeper, then glancing
questioningly at Smartypants. “Do libraries keep the daily profit?”
Ed bites a chopstick so as not to howl HAVE YOU EVER EVEN SET FOOT IN A LIBRARY
or anything to that effect. “Hog warts does,” Smartypants says. “I don’t know for sure about
others. There’s a magical section to the British library, but you need a special permit from the
ministry to go in there.”
“Where’d you see the stack of profits?” Psycho asks Miss Redhead. That’s either gotta be
slang for newspaper or the translation rock is shitting itself again.
“Dunno, upstairs somewhere. One of the rooms all filled with junk. We didn’t clean that one
yet, I know that, so they should still be there,” she says.
“Creatu- “ Psycho starts to say, then cuts off with a wary glance at Ed.
Ed narrows his eyes. “No, go on. Call your slave,” he says, not able to curb his disdain and
not really trying; Mustang can eat his whole ass on this one. “Isn’t that what he’s here for?
Keep talking about how much you want to free him while you’re at it.”
That makes Psycho flush a satisfyingly angry red. “Never mind,” he says through his teeth.
“Don’t you also have a library upstairs?” Ed says, unable to resist adding, “The one full of
stuff you don’t want us to see?”
Psycho looks like he wants to pour the nearest glass of water over Ed’s head. “All that’s in
there is dark books and garbage. Given you can’t even read the books, all that’s there for you
is garbage. And I didn’t want you in there because the very first thing you did when you came
in here was wake everyone at the crack of dawn by tearing portraits off the walls, and if you
go around grabbing things left and right in there you’re going to die.”
Mustang lays a hand on Ed’s shoulder just as he’s about to rip into Psycho, which, right,
that’s a failed fucking grade on the don’t pick a fight situation, so Ed has to settle for huffing
and letting Mustang turn his lean in into a lean back. “Why don’t we take a look at those
newspapers,” Mustang says, like nothing happened and he doesn’t still have a hand on Ed’s
delts. “If there are any incidents you can tell us about off the top of your head, we’ll map
those first. As far back as you can remember.”
Psycho eyes Ed with something like vindication, which Ed doesn’t do more than curl his lip
about because he’s pretty sure it’s exactly what Mustang was going for. Let him think he won
the round; letting people think they’ve won is how Mustang gets people into his bear traps.
Psycho scratches his stubble and turns a less hostile look on Mustang. “You’ll want moonie
for that,” he says. “I was in prison up until two years ago. Though,” he adds, smiling
cynically, “Whatever they’re blaming on me, the worst of it’s almost certainly death eater
activity.”
Escaped convict, right. “What exactly did you get locked up for again?” Ed says, because if
they’re blaming terrorism on him, it probably wasn’t shoplifting.
"Hadn’t you heard? I’m the notorious mass murderer serious black,” Psycho sneers.
“Responsible for all bad things in wizard ing Britain. Watch out, I’m under your bed!”
“He was framed,” Hairy says immediately, looking directly at Ed like he’s prepared to duel
him with his fork for Psycho’s honor or something. “He’s innocent. He didn’t even get a
trial.”
“Is that typical?” Mustang asks, sounding blandly interested.
“It was the end of the war,” Psycho says with a nonchalant shrug that does nothing to hide the
bitterness. “Right after Voldemort disappeared. The next day, in fact. Nobody was interested
in procedure.”
“I see,” Mustang says. “You were active during the war, then?”
“Yeah. Joined the order of the phoenix straight out of school with moonie and James and
lily.”
“We’ll need to map all activity from that time period as well,” Mustang says. “Would you be
able to help out with that?”
Psycho eyes Mustang and then Ed, rubbing his hand over his mouth. “Yeah. Why not.”
Yeah, why not give some basic fucking background info to the people who went way the fuck
outta their way to come help you with your terrorists. “Don’t worry,” Ed says, saccharine.
“You won’t have to work with me. I’ve got readings to take.”
“We’ll also need a map of the country,” Hughes says, leaning in before Psycho can bite back.
“And any surrounding area too, ideally. Would you happen to know where we can get one?”
“That we’ve definitely got,” Psycho says, looking away from Ed with a visible act of will.
“My brother had one of the la-dee-da ones mounted in his room, for all his little projects.
That’s probably his profits too, come to think of it. Sodding nut.” He grunts. “Might as well
go up and see.”
The map turns out to be a respectable piece of work, taking up an entire wall and showing the
entire country and what’s around it - which turns out to be mostly ocean. “We’re on an
island?” Ed says. “Huh.”
“Yeah, right here,” Psycho says, poking at some bit of it. “London, Eng land.” The bit he
poked lights up silver, and letters start forming above it. Then he uses both hands to touch the
map, making a sweeping gesture, and suddenly the map zooms in, like the paper is a screen
and just bungee-dropped forty klicks down, roads branching and spidering as they come into
greater focus.
“Wow,” Arget breathes.
“Handy,” Hughes comments, sounding genuinely impressed. “Can we mark different
incidents in different colors?”
“Probably,” Psycho mutters, taking out his stick and tapping it a couple times against the map
until lights start turning green and then gold and red. “Yeah, there you go.”
“The daily profits are in here,” Miss Redhead calls from across the hallway, the kids having
trooped upstairs with them. “Some of them are pretty recent - did your mum have a
subscription?”
“Must’ve had,” Psycho says, going over there to look as Hughes, Jones and Arget cluster
around the map. Ed looks at Mustang and jerks a thumb at them. “You good?”
“Yes, go on.” Mustang waves him off; he might not have a tenth the experience in array
design that Ed does but there’s no way he’s gonna miss a human transmutation circle if it’s in
any way in front of him, so Ed leaves him to it and heads back downstairs to start taking
some energy readings.
Havoc and Jones turn up down there a couple minutes later. “We’re setting up in the map
room,” Havoc tells Ed as Jones starts collecting papers. “Chief says we might as well have
everything in one place and to come on up when you’re done.”
Ed glances up and frowns over from where he’s digging the equipment back out of the pack.
“Where’s the kid?”
“If you mean me,” Hairy says sardonically from the doorway, the sight of him mostly
blocked by Havoc and Jones, “I’m just here, being led around like a dog on a leash.”
“Get used to it,” Ed advises. “We’re not gonna have you conveniently disappearing on us
because it’s ‘for your own good’ or whatever.”
“We can keep an eye on Hairy,” Miss Redhead pipes up, because apparently she came back
down too.
“I don’t know if you remember or not, but yesterday he almost got murdered and you were
almost collateral,” Ed says, pointing a pen at Hairy and then Miss Redhead as they shuffle
out from behind Havoc, Smartypants and the rest of the redheads now visible out in the
hallway. “Stick together if you want but you’re not going anywhere without a guard until we
solve this thing.”
“I don’t need a guard,” Hairy mumbles kind of sulkily. “Not like having one helped against
those dementers.”
“Firstly, you talk like that, you’re gonna hurt Havoc’s feelings. Look at him, he’s hurt.
Secondly, you don’t find that a little suspicious? Your one and only guard disappears right
before there’s an attack? If that’s a coincidence I’ll eat another boot. Thirdly, like three people
have tried to get rid of you in the past couple hours alone. Now, maybe they’re just really into
family togetherness in how they’re trying to get you back to your relatives’, but somehow I
highly fuckin’ doubt that’s it.”
“I still don’t know what a dementer is,” Havoc says amiably, buckling a pack closed and
moving to the next one. “Though I just wanna say, boss, that everything I’ve heard makes
them sound very much like a you problem.”
“Yeah, so if you suddenly start feeling freaked as fuck and scared outta your mind for no
reason, yell for me or Mustang and get the fuck outta there,” Ed informs him. “Take the kids
with you when you do.”
“I can cast a patronus,” Hairy mutters.
“Good for you. I can tie a cherry stem into a knot with my tongue.”
“What?”
“What? Sorry, I thought we were sharing random and irrelevant facts about ourselves,” Ed
says. “I don’t care what you can cast. Get used to Havoc.”
“It’s not irrelevant. Hairy ran off over a hundred dementers once with his patronus,” Not A
Twin says crabbily.
Hairy kind of ducks his head but doesn’t deny it, and Smartypants nods. “Oh yeah?” Ed says,
eyebrows up; there’s a vague memory of Beardy saying that same word when they were
talking about how Ed had killed the things. “And where was this patronus yesterday? And
what the fuck, if he did that with a hundred, why’d everybody get so torqued about me
dealing wth two?”
“Yeah, but you destroyed them, mate,” a twin says.
“Patronus only chases them off,” the other one says.
“Hairy did cast his patronus,” Not A Twin says staunchly. “They were just - too close, this
time.”
“It’s - if they get to you before you can cast it, you… it gets harder and harder to cast the
closer they are,” Smartypants explains quickly, glancing at Hairy. “You need to cast it with a
happy memory, and dementers make it impossible to feel happy, or remember happy things
when they’re close, so...”
Ed’s eyebrows feel like they’re high fiving his hairline at this point. “Then why don’t you use
something else?”
Smartypants opens her mouth, then closes it, frowns and shakes her head. “There isn’t
anything else. That’s the only thing that can hold off dementers.”
Ed, staring back at her, dearly wants to stop fucking having these moments. “Has anyone
tried fire?”
“I don’t think ordinary fire works against them,” Smartypants argues.
“So your entire strategy for dealing with them is to think happy thoughts? That - you know
what, no. This conversation is over. Those things show up, we deal with them, no happy
thoughts required. Go help Hughes and them upstairs.”
“Could use a hand down here, actually,” Havoc says, gesturing at his pack-up work. “Could
you guys help me stack up all those files?”
The kids all glance at each other but move over to do it, and since they can’t read Amestrisan
Ed leaves them to it, going back to setting up all the measuring equipment. He’s probably
gonna do most of his readings in the room with all the potentially haunted portraits, but he
might as well do a control in here and, hey, check out that armchair Beardy temporarily
fucked with and see if it’s giving off anything wonky.
He has to move a grime-encrusted statuette of a ballerina off a side table to make space to lay
everything out, only one look at the surface has him digging out his handkerchief to wipe off
the horrible coating of gross. This place is a dump. Folding the handkerchief for another pass
alone turns Ed’s gloves grey with dust. The wallpaper is stained and peeling, the floorboards
are cracked and warping, and all the furniture belongs in the Flame Alchemist Target Practice
Retirement Range for Shit That’s Super Fucking Busted.
Al’s going to be coming here, and probably staying more than one night, too. There’s dust
and who the fuck knows what else in the air, probably evil magic wizard mold spores the way
Ed’s luck goes, and he doesn’t even know if this entire building has showers. There’s almost
no chance of Mustang letting them get a hotel, not when it’ll mean splitting up their forces
and forgoing whatever super secret protections are keeping this base off the radar. And no
way in fuck is Al gonna have to wear a sneeze mask or something the entire time he’s here.
Ed looks around the room, frown deepening, then leaves his handkerchief on the table and
knocks his knuckles against the nearest wall. Not hollow; load-bearing, then. Good. “Yo,
Havoc,” he says. “You might wanna stand away from the walls for a bit. You guys too.”
Havoc immediately jerks away from the nearest wall, Jones and the kids twitching in surprise
and scrambling to follow half a second later. Ed pulls the glove off his left hand - he usually
tunes out the familiar makeup of the cloth whenever he’s reading composition through it, but
for delicate or complex work he tries to eliminate variables - and presses it to the wall.
Nothing seems too fucked, chemically speaking; he closes his eyes and lets the structure map
itself out from his hand. It’s really fucking annoying to do, pushing from structure to
structure and reading both shape and matter, making it make sense in a way that his brain can
understand when it’s used to getting this kind of info from his eyeballs. For complicated stuff
it’s necessary, and here he’s gonna be transmuting blind for most of it. There doesn’t seem to
be any wiring anywhere, which does simplify things, but the house is three stories with a
cellar and that’s a lot of shit.
“What’s he doing?” says Smartypants.
Cleaning this place is gonna be a fuckshow. Best thing he can do is a patch job. Sealing off
every rathole and mold reservoir and layer of dust isn’t gonna help the house in the long
term, but it’ll keep all that shit out of the air and away from Al’s lungs. Though, honestly, if
he uses a rigid enough polymer it’ll basically replace whatever structural infirmity is in the
plaster surfaces.
“Alchemy stuff,” Havoc says. “We probably shouldn’t interrupt him.”
Ed mentally runs through a couple of sealant options, weighing effectiveness against the
estimated local availability of relevant elements, and decides silicone with a catalysis chaser
is his best bet. Polydimethylsiloxane, o-kay. C2H6OSi n…. Let’s say nine thousand, no,
eleven to twelve thousand. Alright, yeah.
“Boss?” Havoc says.
“Yeah,” Ed says, then, remembering they’re in the room with him, opens his eyes and adds,
“You might wanna stand on a chair, actually.”
“Jones, tell the General to get anything he cares about off the floor, right now,” Havoc says
urgently.
Jones takes off running. Havoc dives for the table, followed by a mad scramble of kids; not
bad reflexes, that bunch. Ed grins, tosses his braid over his shoulder and claps.
Chapter End Notes
The sad irony is that if sirius and ed had met under better circumstances and didn’t keep
accidentally ramming into each others’ rough spots they would be two long-haired hot
headed leather-panted bike nerds getting chased by the cops and winning darwin awards
for world’s stupidest bar fights together
Chapter 22
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed keeps his hands pressed together - on something like this he’ll easily use a dozen different
arrays before it’s done, it’s faster to just keep the energy circling - and channels everything
down through his feet, the discharge crackling over his legs. It’s a little more costly in terms
of drawn energy and he’ll be a little more tired afterward as a result, but that’s what his
streamlining formulas are for. He does a run-through first, to address any big issues and test if
the damn matter compression that keeps this place hidden affects the actual materials in any
way, but other than a weird feeling of resistance in his alchemy as it sweeps through it all
seems pretty ordinary.
He gives a mental shrug and gets to work. He starts with metals and seals up all the pipes,
scouring rust off and leaving the copper reinforced as well as sparkling like new, and then
moves to stone and gets rid of the cracks in the foundation. The weird resistance fades
suddenly after that, wobbling and then giving way all at once, and from there it’s business as
usual. Ed evens out the staircases, aligns the flagstones in the cellars, straightens the
chimneys, and geez, this place doesn’t have nearly as many windows as they’ll need to
ventilate all the fumes afterward. Big arched casement windows, floor to ceiling, yeah, that’s
the stuff. Could do with some skylights too. And all this cracked fucking… what is that,
tiling? That’s better off all fused into one piece, and as for the wooden support beams...
Watery sunlight breaks over Ed as he reshapes wood and metal and glass and stone, windows
peeling open in the wall beside him. There’s a shout from upstairs, then a roar, then a lot of
crashing noises, but Ed’s busy and doesn’t have time for interruptions and anyway he knows
what pain screaming sounds like and this was just surprise. He peels back the floorboards in
front of him - cellar’s on the other side of the kitchen, it’s just dirt under here - and starts
digging for ingredients.
He pulls up quartz and lye, deconstructing as he drags it up so it comes out as crumbly, ashy
sand, then goes back in again for the groundwater. He changes his mind halfway through and
drops that array; it’ll be easier to just assemble clean water from air via condensation, so he
absently breaks his circle for a second to lean over and push open the new window beside
him with one hand. He presses his palms back together and sets the energy rounding again,
this time to shape and harden the earth basin into a smooth-surfaced tub for the sealant.
Now for the water. With the window open there’s no risk of using up all the oxygen in the
room, so Ed freely pulls the H and O2 and makes them get frisky with their electrons.
A condensation array is the standard for pulling water from air, but the energy requirements
end up stacking out just about the same given the necessity of heat for both, so he might as
well go ahead and do the one that doesn’t need him to factor in humidity calculations. It does
make him focus, though. Molecular restructuring is different from just configuring an
existing set of elements into a different shape, and subatomic manipulation is an entire
different ballgame altogether. There’s a reason lead to gold is a legal school demo array: just
because it’s simple doesn’t mean it’s easy, and to get good enough to strip protons requires
professional control. Making more gold than can fit on a little demo dish takes weeks for
most people, and it was one of the first ways Ed and Al understood that they weren’t just not
like other kids, they weren’t like other alchemists: Al figured out molecular restructuring -
three hours before Ed did - by turning his glass of water into ice when he was nine, and from
there subatomic manipulation wasn’t far behind.
There’s multiple ways to do it. Before the Gate, effecting state change in anything more
complex than water was a matter of multi-step area-effect arrays that manipulated the target
substance by changing conditions like pressure and temperature. Manipulating the atoms
directly - knocking off the protons or adding them - was like slicing a single hair into perfect
halves with a knife that’d turn into a viper and bite if you don’t focus every second and hold
on with both fuckin’ hands. It was doable, they did it, but it was too inefficient to bother with
when they could just set off the traditional set of state change arrays instead.
After the Gate, it’s like Ed is the knife.
The water forms in droplets on the sides of the basin, trickling down to join everything else
already inside. Ed crouches to press his fingers to the slop and starts stripping pure silicon out
of the quartz. Shaping the liquid sealant around everything will be the tricky part; all the
doors and windows and taps and sinks and everything still have to be able to open and close
and drain and function, but it all also needs a thorough protective coating to keep all the gross
shit out of the air. Ed’s not crazy, he knows just sloshing sealant everywhere like he’s pouring
glue into a diorama box isn’t gonna get him anything but a horrifying mess, so section by
section is the way to go -
“Fullmetal.”
Ed twitches hard enough to lose the array, the crackle of discharge dissipating and the
vibrating mess in the basin going still. He looks up to see Havoc and the kids are gone, but
Mustang is standing over him with his there’d better be a GREAT fucking explanation for this
face on, and it registers that somebody nearby is screaming.
For a second Ed’s heart stops - did somebody get caught in the transmutation somehow, did
he somehow not notice - but then the words filter through and he realizes what the woman is
shrieking is insults. A male voice starts bellowing back all pissy - Psycho’s - and Ed narrows
his eyes up at Mustang. “What?”
Mustang spreads both arms in a comprehensive what the fuck gesture.
“Al’s coming,” Ed says crossly. “I’m not having him get sick because the wizards love living
in their own shit so much. I’m doing this dump a goddamn favor.”
“So you decided to transmute the entire house with us still inside it?”
“Uh, yeah,” Ed says. “After everything I did to get Al that immune system I’m not about to
take any chances.” He frowns. “I’m good at this, bastard, I do buildings all the time. What,
did somebody stub a toe when the supports realigned?”
“There is a car-sized chimera upstairs that did not appreciate how its room just experienced
some surprise adjustments,” Mustang says flatly.
“What?”
“It flew out into the hall - since its door was no longer locked, due to having been moved a
meter to the left - and decided to express its disapproval directly.”
“Flew?”
“Oh yes. It has wings and a beak and claws,” Mustang says in that fake-delighted voice that
means he’s actually mad. “It seems to be the convict’s pet, which is lucky for us given he
managed to subdue it before it could eat Arget.”
“Oh,” Ed says. That’s… not great. What the fuck are they doing, keeping giant fucking
chimeras in the house? “You’d think they’d mention that before talking about curses or
whatever.”
Mustang inhales through his nose. “I don’t care if all their warnings about curses are bullshit.
We don’t know what’s in this house. Kindly refrain from throwing dynamite down the
mineshaft when you don’t even know what’s at the bottom.” He shuts his eyes briefly like
looking at Ed is giving him a migraine, then opens them again. “You’re lucky nobody fell
down the stairs while they were being transmuted, or had their head stuck out a window
when you moved everything around.”
“I’ve never squished anyone by accident and I’m not about to start,” Ed retorts, over the
increasingly loud shouting from down the hall. “It’s not luck, I’m good at this.”
Mustang bends at the waist and grips Ed’s chin in one gloved hand. “I said, don’t transmute
when you don’t know the terrain. Am I understood?”
Ed shows him teeth, skin scraping slightly against the rough fabric of the ignition cloth. “I
know what I’m fuckin’ doing.”
“Am I understood, Fullmetal?”
“Yes, bastard, hell,” Ed growls, jerking his chin free. “Calm down, nobody fuckin’ died.”
“This time. You need to stop relying on luck,” Mustang growls back, straightening up. “You
owe Arget an apology.” He points down at the basin full of ingredients Ed’s still crouching
over. “What the hell is this?”
Ed scowls. “Sealant.”
“Sealant,” Mustang repeats. “And the reason Jones came running to tell us to get everything
off the floor, I presume, is because you were just going to apply it. All at once. Everywhere.”
“I was gonna do it in sections,” Ed says, but he’s starting to sound like Hairy did ten minutes
ago even to his own ears, so he shuts his mouth.
Mustang pinches the bridge of his nose, squeezing his eyes shut briefly. “Pull something like
this again and I’m chaining you to a stake in the yard for the remainder of the op.”
“Arf arf,” Ed retorts sourly, but if Mustang’s making dog jokes that means he’s basically
forgiven. For now, anyway. Fuck, he really is gonna be assigned a stakeout in a sewer when
they get back.
“Behave,” Mustang returns at him, already turning to the extended shouting outside. “We
need to deal with this.”
Ed claps to strip all the assorted silicon mush off his hands, then swipes at his jaw to get rid
of the phantom tickle of Mustang’s stupid gloves. “Start going for my face, I’ll start going for
yours,” he mutters as he pushes himself up, mostly to himself since Mustang’s already
striding out of the room.
Ed follows him out, frowning harder as the yelling starts resolving into words; it’s sounding a
lot like more of the shit the paintings were spouting, lots of foamy invective about
crossbreeding and impurity and defiling scum. Sounds pretty fuckin’ racist, actually, now that
he thinks about it.
Psycho is in the hall, bellowing at a giant painting while waving his stick at a pile of fabric on
the ground. The fake-chimera elf is there too, mouth moving like he’s muttering to himself
but totally inaudible over the painting’s hysterical shrieking. “Shut the hell up, you bloody
Bint,” Psycho hollers at it, his stick making the cloth shimmer and jump up onto the wall
around the painting as curtains. He wrenches them together - the screaming cuts off - and
spins to jab a finger at the elf. “And you - what the bloody hell were you doing?”
“Master says not to be interfering with the cleaning,” the elf says in a sullen, scratchy voice.
“Creature is not interfering.”
“Cleaning?” Psycho shouts. “The whole bloody house was about to come down!”
“It was not,” Ed says, cranky, and Psycho rounds on them.
Mustang’s hand clamps onto Ed’s shoulder like a dog bite. “We apologize for the
disturbance,” he says before Psycho can start howling again. “Elric discovered several
structural faults within the building and decided to repair them himself. He didn’t expect this
level of disruption; regardless, he should have warned everyone beforehand.”
Psycho gives him a wild look. “Discovered - What were you doing?”
“Renewing the pipes, patching the foundation, aligning anything load-bearing,” Ed ticks off
on one hand, trying not to sound too crabby given Mustang had just had to apologize to a
crazy wizard because of him. “I reinforced it all and got rid of all the dry rot, too, you’re
welcome. Next I’m going to take care of your mold problem.”
“With supervision, certainly,” Mustang says evenly, not letting go of Ed’s shoulder. “And
once we’ve made sure it’s safe to do so.”
There’s a crash from upstairs; somebody yells “Sorry!” and Ed looks away from the staircase
in time to see the painting’s curtains shoot back again like they’re on magnetized rails. The
painting revealed is of an old woman, life size, and her eyes bulge at them in furious
revulsion before she sucks in an enormous breath. “Defiling scum! Get from my sight, you
whore-born dogs, you wretched filth -”
“God dammit,” Psycho hisses, leaping forward to yank at the curtains again. “This, this is
why we keep telling you to stop messing with things! The bloody hippo Griff nearly got loose
and every time someone sneezes in this goddamned house this fucking nightmare wakes up
and shrieks at the top of her lungs -”
“Oh, it’s my fault your house is a creepfest full of cursed shit?” Ed snaps, fully done. “You
hate this so much, fucking get rid of it -”
“You think we haven’t tried? We can’t fucking get rid of it because there’s a permanent
sticking charm on the back! Silencing doesn’t work, charmed curtains barely work, and
believe me, I’ve tried everything I’ve got to get this damned thing off -”
Mustang looks like he’s seriously considering torching the painted woman, frame and all. Ed
gestures exaggeratedly at it, all May I, if your lord high king majesty thinks it’s okay?
Mustang gives him a baleful eyeball but lets go of Ed’s shoulder before looking back at
Psycho. “Elric can probably help you with that.”
“If your help wakes her up again I’m hexing your ears off your head,” Psycho snaps.
“Fuckin’ try it,” Ed returns, clapping and pressing his hands to the wall. If the live paintings
really do contain souls he doesn’t wanna fuck around with that, so he just carves out the
entire meter and a half square chunk of wall, plaster and wallpaper and everything the
painting’s attached to. For a moment there’s that weird resistance again, but Ed is in no mood
for bullshit and a second later the entire block comes crashing down onto the floor.
Naturally, this makes the painted lady start shrieking again, though slightly muffled now
given the portrait is face down. “Huh,” Psycho says, after a second.
“Do you mean to keep it?” Mustang says fastidiously, not bothering to raise his voice over
the shouts of insolence! and fatherless scum!
“Fuck no,” Psycho says disgustedly, pointing his stick at the painting. “Silencio.” Absolutely
nothing happens. “Evanesco.” More nothing. “Diffindo.” A gash appears in the plaster stuck
to the back of the painting, scoring it open down to the wooden back of the frame, but as they
watch the wood heals itself even as the plaster stays split. “Shit. Guess that still doesn’t
work.”
“Fullmetal,” Mustang says dourly, clearly having reached his tolerance limit of listening to
crazy racist screaming from something that should be an inanimate object. “Deal with it or I
will.”
And Mustang problemsolves with fire. Psycho clearly wouldn’t mind given he just did some
kind of invisible knife magic on the painting, but Ed wants to be sure and anyway he did just
get a whole reamout on Be More Responsible When You Transmute, Fullmetal. “Okay,
seriously, is this thing alive?” he demands of Psycho. “Because if it’s alive, we got a
problem.”
“Alive? Ha! This is my dear old mum’s way of making sure she could still call me a
worthless traitor even after she was dead.”
This is this guy’s mom? “So it’s not her soul stuck in there?”
“What? That again? Look, moonie told you, it’s a painting, it’s like - an impression, or
something. You think every time someone gets their damn photo taken it gets their soul stuck
in a newspaper? Paintings’ve got nothing to do with souls,” Psycho says dismissively. “If this
vicious bitch even had one.”
The shrieking is getting really insistent at this point. “O-kay, not alive,” Ed decides, and claps
and deconstructs the plaster and wood and canvas down into its constituent molecules. The
tingle runs through his hands as he makes contact and there’s that resistance again, but
straight deconstruction is fast and straightforward and the tingle disappears abruptly, the
carbon disintegrating under Ed’s hands into flakes of graphene.
The screeching cuts off mid-word. Ed really doesn’t like that, but - he just did it, so. He lifts
his hands from the pile of crumbly dust and shakes the residue from his gloves.
“Huh,” Psycho says again, after a moment of ringing silence. “You know what, that alone
might just be worth all your other Shite.”
Chapter End Notes
grimmauld place, which has been abandoned & neglected for years: what the fuck is
this… little blond demon…doesn’t feel like magic... the fuck is he… doing… what the f
- OH FUCK HE’S FIXING SHIT? HE’S FIXING SHIT?? HE’S FIXING - HE IS
FIXING ALL THE SHIT, WHAT THE FUCK - THIS IS NOT A DRILL -
kreature, in some N-space pocket clutching his tea cozy gstring while the house gets a
Mach 10 Makeover: I HATES M*THERF*CKING WIZARDS
intermission
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Harry hadn’t actually seen much of what Elric did to the dementors. He’d been focusing so
hard on trying to cast his Patronus through the blinding morass of despair and then trying to
try again when it failed that he’d really only gotten impressions: yelling and thunderous
grinding noises and then heat. When the crushing cold had gone away there hadn’t really
been anything to see of what had happened, just the former underpass transformed into a
dead end, emitting faint plinking noises as it cooled, and then Elric somehow ordering them
around even when they couldn’t even understand what he was saying.
Ron and everybody told him it was wandless magic, and he did see Elric clap his hands and
use that to transfigure his fork during lunch, but seeing that and then this is like seeing one of
Dudley’s toy Hot Wheels cars and then going outside and seeing a thousand stone lorry. Elric
claps and his whole body comes alight in arcs of electricity, lightning snapping almost lazily
as it coils around him, trailing down his legs and probing at the floor. The sparking energy
blows Elric’s hair back and lights his face even eerier than it looks already, reflecting
strangely off his yellow eyes and hair and making teeth glint blue in his feral grin, and he
looks nothing short of delighted to have them jumping up on tables to get away from him.
Chaos’s hand is fisted in the back of Harry’s shirt. Without warning, the crackling light
abruptly leaps off Elric and washes across the floor in a wave. Then Harry yelps and jerks,
because Chaos suddenly has him around the waist in a businesslike grip and lifts him up into
the air like he weighs nothing. “Come on, out we go,” he says briskly, jumping back down
off the table. Harry gets a glimpse of Ginny - mouth open in shock - under his other arm
before he has to grab hard at Chaos’s uniform to keep from being shaken around like a dog
toy as they head for the door.
“Kitchen, back door, go go,” Chaos orders, moving in a way that somehow gets Hermione
and Ron and the twins ahead of him, dodging out the doorway and into the hall. The desire to
try and struggle free is automatic, but Chaos’s grip is absolute and he’s not even breathing
hard as he runs after the twins with both Ginny and Harry under his armpits like a couple of
bouncing sacks of rice. Through all the jolting Harry sees more blue lightning flicker from
the corner of his eye, and Chaos speeds up just as it passes them, sinking into the ceiling, the
floor, the walls, and the entire corridor starts to shudder.
There’s a deep rumble behind them, like an avalanche gearing up. Something metallic moans
in the walls. Gooseflesh sweeps down Harry’s arms as the ceiling starts to grind, and he grits
his teeth and hangs on harder as Chaos swings neatly sideways to get them through the
kitchen doorway. The air starts to taste metallic, almost bitter, and it’s a relief when they pass
through the door and out into the backyard.
Chaos jogs a few more yards away from the building, then sets Harry and Ginny down before
they can do more than start to struggle. “Whoof,” Chaos says, dusting his hands off and
turning to look back at the house, not seeming to notice Harry and Ginny staggering away
from him. “Man, wish the boss would give some more warning sometimes.”
“What the hell was that?” Ginny demands, jerking her rumpled sweater straight. “What’s he
doing?”
“Probably fixing something,” Chaos says, like blue lightning isn’t suddenly crackling over
the visible chimneys. “I bet he’s - oh, yep, there we go.”
Parts of the house start to move. It starts slow but speeds up quick: first the chimneys
straighten up like they’ve been smacked with a ruler, then it’s like the whole house shivers
into motion. Windows shunt open where there was only bare brick, existing windows shudder
and stretch, and there’s a brief screech of metal as one of the gutters gets dragged sharply to
the right as parts of the roof shift around. Harry calms down watching it; here in the backyard
the hair-raising feeling of strange, inescapable force is gone, and it all goes back to regular
magic again. It looks kind of like when Mrs. Weasley expanded the Burrow that one time,
actually.
“Is he remodeling?” Fred says, apparently thinking along the same lines.
“Bet Sirius isn’t gonna like that,” George says.
“He hates this place,” Ginny points out. “Might buy Elric a drink.”
“True. Might buy him more if he burned it down, honestly,” Fred muses. They watch the blue
sparks crackle across the kitchen door, the frame grinding into an entirely different style and
a window opening in the wood. More energy flickers across the roof, and then the lightning
all fades all at once, sinking into the house like it was never there.
They all stand around and watch for a minute to see if anything else is going to happen. “Can
we go back in now?” Ron says, not sounding very happy about having been chased into the
backyard by surprise magic.
Chaos scratches his cheek. “We-ell, the chief’s probably downstairs now and tearing the boss
a new one, so... we should probably wait for the all-clear before we go back.”
“Elric’s getting yelled at? That I want to see,” Ron mutters. He’s taken crunch crunch
personally.
“You really don’t,” Chaos says, wincing slightly. “The boss yells back.”
“We’re pretty used to yelling,” George says.
“Well, sure, but the chief might make him put stuff back how it was, and then we’d have to
go right back out again,” Chaos says reasonably. “Better to wait for them to come get us.”
“That was all alchemy?” Hermione says, looking intently at the house. “Is it dangerous to be
around a - a transmutation like that? Is that why you got us out?”
“Well,” Chaos says, glancing at her and rubbing the back of his neck. “Sometimes the boss…
well, his expectations are kinda skewed. He’s the all metal alchemist. It’s like, the doors he
wouldn’t think twice about kicking in, us regular guys wouldn’t even touch the doorknob,
y’know? So sometimes it’s better to give him some space. Just in case.”
“He better not have messed with any of our things,” Ron warns. Harry has a brief spasm of
panic for Hedwig - the only thing of his he'd brought from the Dursleys besides his wand -
before remembering she isn't in her cage because that too is back at Privet Drive, and she'll be
able to fly away from any danger if necessary. Besides, the rest of the soldiers are still in the
house and Chaos hasn't gone back for them, so presumably whatever Elric is doing can't
be too bad.
“The boss fixes what he breaks,” Chaos assures them. “The chief’ll make sure of it,
anyway.”
“Why do you call him boss?” George says interestedly. “No way he’s older than you.”
Chaos kinda coughs at that, grinning a bit into his hand as he rubs his chin. “Well, he does
outrank me,” he says. “And him and the chief, they’re damn good alchemists. A man who
can transmute your life into a world of hurt, well - you salute when he walks by, you know
what I mean?”
“So he’s your actual boss,” Fred concludes. “Blimey. What’s that like?”
Chaos laughs. “Nah, nah, I’m one of the chief’s. The boss is - well, he outranks me, but he’s
not in my direct chain of command, and he’s a field agent for special investigations, so he
doesn’t really have anyone answering to him.”
“We’re a special investigation,” Ron realizes. “That’s why you lot got sent here.”
“Way I understand it, one of yours asked a favor from one of ours,” Chaos says amiably.
“And then she called in some favors of her own, including the chief’s. And where the chief
goes, I go, and all metal’s part of his command, so. Here we are.”
Harry had been wondering what exactly led to foreign wizards showing up - very strange
wizards, given they didn’t act like any wizards Harry had met, and on top of that insisted they
weren’t wizards, actually - but he’d assumed they were just people Dumbledore knew from
outside the country. Their interrogation - well, Elric’s interrogation - of his scar was
confusing in pretty much every way possible, because it sounded like they wanted to remove
it and everyone was in the room watching him when Elric looked it over, like they were going
to discover something critical, something Moody and Snape and Dumbledore all had to be
there for.
Harry doesn’t know what to think. He wants to sit and talk with Ron and Hermione
somewhere quiet, but so far they’ve all agreed their best chance to know what’s going on is to
hang around the foreigners and see what they’ll let slip. For all that Elric acts like an
incomprehensible prat he doesn’t seem like someone at all interested in lying, and he’s been
very direct with all questions so far.
He was the one who said Voldemort might be… possessing Harry, and Dumbledore hadn’t
refuted it. He hadn’t looked surprised at all. If Harry is possessed, Dumbledore knows, has
known, and didn’t tell him about it. And once Elric said it, Harry hasn't been able to stop
thinking about how it is too much of a coincidence that Mundungus Fletcher, the one person
assigned to watch him, disappeared for a cauldron deal right before the dementors attacked.
“The… Mr. Mustang is an alchemist too?” Hermione says, bringing Harry back out of his
darkening thoughts.
“Oh yeah. Second highest ranking state alchemist,” Chaos says. “Don’t tell him I said this,
but he’s a good guy, even if he does cheat at cards.”
“Are you an alchemist?” Fred says interestedly, in tones Harry recognizes as preceding a
pitch to try a Puking Pastille or two.
“ Hell no,” Chaos says immediately, shuddering theatrically. “Pardon my Drachman.
Definitely not. Alchemy is useful and all, but frankly it’s for the crazies.”
They all look at the house, where Elric has presumably stopped doing something that had one
of his fellow soldiers fleeing the scene. Chaos sounds pretty calm, but he’d sure gotten them
out of there in a hurry, and while Elric doesn’t seem - well - dark, Harry can clearly see the
look of wicked delight that was on Elric’s face when the room lit up around him.
Ron meets Harry’s eyes and nods like he’s thinking pretty much what Harry’s thinking, or at
least similar only with added fried spiders. “Yeah, crazy sounds about right.”
Chapter End Notes
Havoc: i call ed boss bc i met him when he was waist high, sixty percent baby fat and
had just physically threatened the dictator of our country with a spear to the neck. You
ever meet a twelve year old who could, would and did nutshot god? Trust me, you’d call
him boss too
Havoc: plus calling him “boss” was hilarious. Still is. Have you seen the guy? I’m six
foot seven. He comes up to, like, my elbow
Chapter 24
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Psycho points his stick at the pile of flakey dust and says another of their nonsense magic
commands, and this time the pile swirls in place and vanishes into the air, the tingle washing
over Ed. “Now it works,” he says, noticeably brightened as he looks at Ed. “What did you
do?”
“Deconstructed it down to component elements.” Ed glares up at Mustang. “Happy?”
“Overjoyed,” Mustang says. “I’ll be even more so when we go apologize to Arget.”
Ed scowls as he stands, dusting his gloves together. “Yeah, why is there a giant fuckin’
chimera in the house?”
“A what?” Psycho says, eyebrows furrowing. “You mean buck beak? He’s not a chimera,
he’s a hippo Griff.”
“Beak, wings, claws? Size of a car?” Ed says, making flappy flying gestures with both hands
to illustrate.
“Well, yeah,” Psycho says. “Standard hippo Griff.”
“Is it standard for it to be indoors?” Ed says pointedly.
“Well, no, but he’s a wanted criminal just like me, see,” Psycho says sarcastically. “I don’t
bloody want to be indoors either, but I’ve got Aurors after me from here to whales, so we just
sit tight in here like good boys so we don’t both end up executed.”
“What the fuck, is this thing sentient too?” Ed snarls. “What is wrong with you people?”
“Hey, whoa, buck beak’s not sentient,” Psycho says. “Bloody smart animal, yeah, but -”
“How is an animal a criminal?”
“He clawed up a kid,” Psycho says, looking kind of nonplussed. “Malfoy’s brat, actually. Got
sentenced to be put down for it since his dad pulled his damn favors.”
Ed drags both hands down his face. “Fucking translation shit,” he grinds into his hands.
“Again.”
“You really got a thing with chimeras, huh,” Psycho says.
Mustang’s lips press together slightly. “I suspect chimera does not mean for you what it
means for us.”
“Where we come from, chimera means an alchemically recombined animal,” Ed says tightly,
dropping his hands. “Let me tell you what that means. Bad chimera alchemists try to combine
two or more species together, and they produce nothing but disfigured corpses. Really bad
chimera alchemists create hybrids that are in pain, all the time, and die within a few weeks if
they’re lucky. And the very worst chimera alchemists,” he says, voice going sing-song,
“decide that the secret to success is combining animals and humans. So yeah, you can have
sentient chimeras. I’m friends with a few. They got experimented on and their transmutations
were only successful because other people got murdered to power the arrays. So when I see
what looks like a kid mixed with an animal then yeah. I get a little bothered.”
Ed gestures pointedly at the bat-eared elf - or rather where the elf now isn’t, because
apparently at some point he disappeared while they were dealing with Racist Painting.
“Huh,” Psycho repeats. “Well, that sounds… horrible, but I wouldn’t feel bad for creature, I
really wouldn’t. Little bastard probably fucked off to cry about how his favorite torturer isn’t
here to join his insult chorus anymore.”
Ed looks Psycho in the eyes, hands flexing into fists. “You don’t get it, do you. He could be a
baby-eating maniac and slavery would still be wrong.”
“I’m not disagreeing,” Psycho protests. “You think I wanted this? I ran the fuck away from
here when I was sixteen, got disowned for it and thought good fucking riddance, too! Then
my stupid death eater brother got himself killed and the inheritance fell back on me, and now
I’m stuck in this fucking hellhole because one of my best friends turned out to be a
psychopath and got my other best friend murdered by the dark lord. Oh, and offed sixteen
muggles while he was at it, too! That’s the kind of people my family were, and creature’s one
of them down to the bone. Hell, I’d free every house elf tomorrow if it wouldn’t make them
riot!”
Mustang steps forward and grips Ed’s shoulder again. “It is what it is,” he says, more to Ed
than to Psycho, though angling himself and using a tone that’s calculated to make Psycho see
sympathy. “We have other problems that take precedence. We apologize for the interruption,
serious - do you feel up to resuming with Colonel Hughes upstairs?”
“Yeah, no problem,” Psycho grunts, mollified by Mustang laying it on with a trowel. “You
didn’t mess with anything else, did you?”
“Guess we’ll find out when it starts screaming insults at us,” Ed mutters.
Mustang gives him a Look. “Where’s Havoc?”
“Dunno. Ran out with the kids, I guess.”
Mustang’s Look ticks a couple of degrees more Pissedwards. “Why don’t we go find them.
And make sure nobody’s been alchemized into the walls.”
“Nobody’s alchemized into anything.” Ed huffs and stalks off down the hall. He would’ve
definitely felt it if somebody got stuck within one of his transmutations; it would change the
whole elemental composition, like disturbing the surface of a pond with a chucked rock.
Mustang does have a point about the whole maybe-somebody-falling-down-the-stairs thing,
but it’s not like Ed is just yanking shit around willy-nilly. He knows what he’s fucking doing.
The sitting room door whips open when Ed’s a handful of steps away, making him and
Mustang stop short. There’s no one on the other side, though, and nothing happens, so Ed
glares over his shoulder at Psycho. “What?”
“What?” he repeats back.
“Fuck are you doing with the door?”
Psycho looks baffled and increasingly irritated. “What are you talking about?”
Ed doesn’t believe that for a second, but Mustang clearly doesn’t give a shit about what he
believes or doesn’t because he prods Ed’s shoulder to keep going, the Behave look on his
face again. Ed narrows his eyes at him and strides through, and nothing happens - no sign of
any prank and the door stays open like it hadn’t moved itself. It doesn’t really allay the
suspicion but they do have shit to do, so Ed keeps going past the opened floorboards and
sealant basin, which Mustang gives a pointed glance as they walk by.
“I’m still gonna do something about the mold,” Ed warns.
“Are you really trusting to your luck to ensure none of the children wander in, trip over this
floor situation and crack their skulls?”
“If they wander in and trip over that they’ll deserve it,” Ed retorts. There’s a squeak to his
left, and Ed looks around in time to see one of the painting people turn and run, disappearing
into the side like they’ve just run out of camera frame. All the other frames are completely
empty, he realizes; there’s nothing left but landscapes and backgrounds, totally absent of
people.
“Hm,” Mustang says, his are we about to have An Experience noise, clearly noticing this too.
“Huh,” Psycho says, a grin starting to tug at his mouth. Scowling, Ed decides the least violent
course of action is to just fucking find Havoc and make sure he didn’t get eaten by more
surprise chimeras or whatever, because engaging with Psycho now will only end in black
eyes and endless Mustang lectures. He stomps through the room and to the kitchen, where -
the second he heads for it - the back door crashes open and presses itself to the wall, damn
near quivering.
Ed stops short again. “Okay, what the fuck,” he demands, rounding on Psycho and stabbing a
finger at the door. “The fuck is going on here?”
The half-disbelieving grin is growing like a weed on Psycho’s face, and then he’s snickering,
then chuckling, then full-on belly laughing. “Think it’s - think it might be afraid of you,
mate,” he wheezes. “The whole house - oh, this is - this is too good, oh merlin -”
Havoc is indeed in the backyard, and he’s spotted them through the open door. “All clear,
chief?” he calls, loping up with the kids trailing behind him.
“More or less,” Mustang allows, eyeing the doorframe. “Are we to infer that this is the house
itself acting, serious?”
“Well it’s not me doing it,” Psycho gasps, all but slapping his knee. “Oh, merlin. You shook it
near off its foundations, then you disintegrated a portrait - the most magically protected one
in this place, I’ll bet - it’s quaking in its boots! Oh, this is magnificent -”
Ed, gaping at Psycho, is gonna have a straight coronary and not even Al is gonna be able to
bring him back. “The HOUSE is SENTIENT?”
Havoc stops right outside the doorway, eyes going wide. “Boss. You didn’t.”
“Wh - I didn’t MAKE it sentient!”
“It wasn’t doing this before,” Mustang says, very neutrally.
“How the fuck would I make a house sentient,” Ed hollers, about to go full hog feral in this
fuckforsaken circus of crap.
“If anyone could, it would be you,” Mustang says, because for all his claims of diplomacy
he’s always nothing but dying to pour gasoline on the nearest grease fire.
“It’s - no, no, it’s kind of always like that,” Psycho manages, wiping at a literal fucking tear
of mirth at his eye. “Sometimes it shows it more than others. Like when it likes somebody. Or
when it’s pissing itself scared,” he adds, breaking down into cackling again.
“Blimey,” one of the twins says, edging past Havoc to enter the kitchen and gawp around.
“You really changed everything, didn’t you.”
“I know!” Psycho says like he’s a five year old that just got told he’s getting free candy
forever for the rest of his life. “He had the whole house shaking like a leaf. Think if I start
hexing the walls it’ll be scared of me too?”
These idiots’ priorities are broken. The look Ed gives Mustang is probably at least thirty
percent over his daily allotment of crazy, but holy fucking shit this is garbage and at least
Mustang’s looking back like he understands what Ed’s foaming about. “The house,” Ed says,
because he has to get this out or literally feel his brain shoot out his ears as boiling steampressured liquified neuron goo. “The house. Is alive. The HOUSE.”
“I dunno that you can call it alive,” Psycho says happily as Havoc cautiously steps inside, the
rest of the kids sidling in behind him. “Or sentient. What would it even be sentient with? It
hasn’t got a brain.”
Ed stabs a finger at the door. “That saw me going for it. It can tell where I am, and where I’m
about to go, which means it’s watching me.”
“Watching all of us, most likely,” Mustang says in a neutral tone of voice, hands slipped in
his pockets in that way that means he’s trying to hide how he’s rubbing his snap-happy
fingers together.
Not A Twin pauses in his suspicious squinting around the kitchen to make a face at them.
“That’s… creepy.”
“Creepy?” Ed demands. “Creepy? We passed creepy ninety klicks ago and kept fucking
accelerating, you dunderfucks, and now this is some straight up ethics panel, crimes against
humanity, strip your license and throw you in jail pigshit. Who the fuck makes a HOUSE
sentient?”
“You?” a twin says.
“It’s most likely a magical system built into the house that they don’t understand,” Mustang
says directly to Ed, before Ed can open his mouth and vomit lava into the twin’s face. “A
security system, probably. It may have programmed behavioral traits, but I doubt there’s any
chance of real sentience.”
“And it got activated by me moving things around,” Ed completes, nodding like a
bobblehead, trying to live in a better world than one where fucking wizards make sentient
houses like that isn’t a fucking screaming nightmare of an ethical violation. “Right. No
problem. Nothing to worry about. Holy fucking shit, Mustang, that better be it, I fucking hate
this place so much.”
“You and me both,” Psycho says, all friendly. “Feel free to do more of what you did again
anytime.”
“Absolutely do not feel free,” Mustang says. “We are not having a repeat of the flying
chimera situation.”
“I told you, there aren’t - oh, you mean buck beak,” Psycho says. “Yeah, maybe don’t do that.
He’s tetchy when he’s surprised.”
“Buck beak is here?” Hairy exclaims from the knot of kids. “Where?”
“Upstairs,” Psycho says. “Master bedroom. Want to go see him? It’s about feeding time
anyway, and it might calm him down some after all the excitement.”
“Yeah,” Hairy says, looking cheered by the prospect of going to see an apparently car-sized
monster that tries to eat people, specifically children. “Yeah, I’d like that.”
Ed can’t even go a minute without being avalanched by these wizards’ suicidal numbskullery.
“You don’t even tell people there’s a giant chimera living in your house? What if they open
the wrong door by mistake?”
“Why don’t you show them all where it is?” Mustang says, taking a hand out of his pocket to
gesture at the kids and Havoc. “Just so we’ll all be aware and know how to handle things in
case of another incident.”
“Another incident,” Havoc repeats.
“Oh yes. Ask Arget,” Mustang says. “She executed a very admirable dodge.”
“That the blonde girl? Good reflexes, that one,” Psycho says approvingly. “That was a hell of
a roll.”
“Yes, we’re all very lucky she didn’t get to her firearm before you got there,” Mustang says
in a very sincere voice. “It may have taken as much as her full magazine to deal with the
problem.”
“Right,” Havoc says in his we’re all fucking doomed voice. “Lead the way.”
“Go on, we’ll join you in a moment,” Mustang says. “Elric has a hole to close up in the
sitting room floor.”
“Sure,” Psycho says. Hairy glances back at Ed like, what, does he want to talk or some shit?
But apparently the lure of consorting with dangerous animals outweighs whatever the fuck he
might be wanting from Ed, and he follows Psycho out of the kitchen. The rest of the kids
more or less do the same, though the twins and Smartypants especially look like they’d rather
stay and watch Ed shout at Mustang some more.
Too fucking bad for them. Ed stalks off back to the sitting room, Mustang behind him. Before
he can clap, though, Mustang comes around to face him and gestures at the basin. “Show me
what you intended to do.”
Ed’s gonna go ahead and assume he doesn’t mean a live demonstration, especially after all
his nagging. “It’s polydimethylsiloxane,” he says shortly. “Or it’s gonna be. Was gonna just
pour it on everything - in sections, don’t have kittens about it - and catalyze in place to seal
all the nasty shit in. Everything’s all molded through, and alchemizing through wallpaper and
plaster and wood would just send all that shit into the air. I was gonna polymerize out the ass
so it’ll be rigid enough to act as a structural fix anyway, for anything that’s unsound.”
“Hm,” Mustang says, wandering over to examine the nearest wall, then back to look at the
proto-sealant slurry. “Open those windows, would you?”
Ed warily pushes the windows open. “Why?”
“Just testing something,” Mustang says, taking his left hand out of his pocket and snapping.
The wallpaper on the far wall bursts into flame in an even line, right along the bottom edge,
and steadily climbs higher. The wood revealed underneath the curling paper is stained and
dark but untouched by the fire: Mustang’s controlling the burn perfectly, balancing the ratios
of oxygen, suffocating the flames where he doesn’t want them and feeding them where he
does. “What the hell happened to don’t transmute, bastard?” Ed demands, jerking a hand at
this little spectacle and stepping away from the thin smoke. “Fire’s way more dangerous than
anything I did! You didn’t even check to see if there was anything there that might react when
you start torching shit, you hypocrite.”
“Firstly, I told you to know the terrain before you transmute, because making you not
transmute entirely would require me to drug you unconscious and probably hog-tie you
upside down to a tree,” Mustang says, eyes on the flames as they eat up the burning paper. A
faint arc of active transmutation discharge wanders over his glove as he continues controlling
the reaction. “Secondly, the tactical landscape just changed. If the house, or something in the
house, is alive and watching us, and there’s nothing we can do about it…” Mustang shrugs
minutely. “Can’t hurt to scare it some more.”
Ed cannot believe this bastard. First he’s all ohhh, it’s fine, Fullmetal, this thing definitely
ain’t sentient, and then he turns around and acts like it’s a goddamn hostage to intimidate.
“You are the least reassuring person in the world,” he hisses.
“I’m not here to give reassurances,” Mustang says dryly as the flames wink out, leaving
nothing but a bare wall and a thin line of ash on the floor. The smoke has all been siphoned
out the windows; only the faint smell of burned paper lingers. “I’m here to win. Reassuring
you in any case is only achievable by crowbar.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“You’re a problem solver, Fullmetal. Pretty words aren’t going to do much for you. Either
find out what the activated system is and deactivate it or make sure it’ll jump when you say
how high.”
“I’m not going to bully the house!”
“Of course not,” Mustang says indulgently. “You’re just going to fix things. Like a doctor. A
surprise chiropractic adjuster, as it were.”
“I’ll chiropractically adjust you if if turns out I’ve been transmuting something alive this
whole time,” Ed swears.
Mustang lifts a hand and waggles his fingers slightly. “Did it feel alive to you?”
Ed stops short, genuinely caught off guard. “You can do that too?”
Mustang watches him for a second, slipping his hand in his pocket again. “No. But I know
you’re getting some kind of information when you touch things like that. It isn’t exactly
subtle.” He tilts his head slightly, reading whatever it is he gets off Ed’s face. “If this is
supposed to be some kind of secret, I’d advise against doing it regularly, in front of multiple
witnesses, and immediately before you do any alchemy.”
Ed scowls. It’s not exactly a secret, or at least not from Mustang, because Mustang knew
from the getgo that Ed committed human transmutation, and even before he knew the whole
of everything he’d always kept Ed and Al’s secrets. He’s also the one who taught Ed that
nobody needs to know the whole of what you can do, though, and that if you have an
advantage, any advantage, it’s best to keep it to yourself; Ed hasn’t told anybody besides Al
about this little trick. Though he hasn’t been hiding it either. Anybody who pays attention
would notice and infer exactly what Mustang had.
And there’s no actual reason not to tell him. “Go through the Gate enough times, you pick up
some extra tricks,” Ed says after a moment. “I can get elemental composition through touch,
if I focus. Al can too. I could do it pretty much from the start, because I went twice right
away -” he jerks his chin at his right shoulder, tapping his left leg - “but Al picked it up after
we got his body.” Ed frowns. “Though that may be because the armor couldn’t process the
input. I couldn’t do it through my automail hand.”
“That explains a few things.” Mustang tilts his head further, assessing. “Is that also why you
had me touching the painting?”
“Yeah. I dunno if an alchemist who’s never passed through the Gate could feel the tingle. Or
-” Ed huffs. “I can see it too. I’m seeing - something. Looks like air distortion from heat. It’s
around the paintings, the flowerpot, it’s present when they use their sticks, it was all over the
house when we arrived. When it was invisible.”
“You were looking at it,” Mustang realizes. “You could see it?”
“Not really. It just looked like a really big patch of heat haze.”
“Hm.” Ed kind of expects more, but after that Mustang just keeps looking at him. It takes him
a couple seconds too long to recognize this particular stare: Mustang’s waiting for him to
realize that whatever he just said or did is stupid as all hell and once Ed figures that out they
can get back to having an an adult goddamn conversation.
Ed runs through the past couple minutes and can really only come up with one thing. “I…
probably should have told you about it.”
“Yes. You should have,” Mustang says neutrally. “Telling me these things allows me to better
tailor the situation to our advantage.”
Ed’s hackles go up on reflex, because even if it’s Mustang, even after all this time, he still
can’t bend to bridle. “I ain’t gotta tell you every little thing about how I do my alchemy.”
“The fact that you can see things nobody else can is something one might call tactically
relevant information,” Mustang says mildly.
“Al’ll probably be able to do it too,” Ed says, defensive and knowing as he says it that it’s
stupid, got nothing to do with what they’re actually talking about.
“Fullmetal.” Mustang’s voice is still quiet; it’s probably just because he doesn’t want to take
chances on eavesdroppers when the doors are open and the entire house might be one big
eavesdrop, but the effect nonetheless is a change in tone that doesn’t usually happen when
they’re just yelling at each other. “I understand you typically work alone, or with Alphonse,
or with soldiers who don’t need anything from you besides orders. I understand you’re
unused to having to share intel in real time, and I understand your leash is long on any given
op. I’m the one who spools the damn thing out. Most of the time this works to mutual benefit.
But this is not your typical op, and when we are all in hostile territory, with no firm allies,
knowing almost nothing about the situation, the people, the country itself - anything you’ve
got, I need to know. Do you so mistrust my judgment?”
One of these days Ed seriously has to do something about how Mustang can make him feel
eleven and limbless again with nothing but a couple of sentences. “I gave you my notebook.
And I needed clean control group testing,” he says, but even he knows that’s weak shit.
Mustang just keeps looking at him. Ed tries not to grit his teeth. “I get it. Alright? I’m
trying.”
“I know. I’m accommodating.” He really is, fucking damn it. “Anything else you’d like to
share?”
“No, that’s it,” Ed says, trying not to sound like a shitty resentful kid about it.
“Very well then.”
Ed rolls his shoulders, trying to get rid of the tension. “Great. Fine. We good? We done?
Need to know what color my underwear is too?”
Mustang rolls his eyes, dissolving the moment. “That’s no state secret, Fullmetal. If it’s
anything other than black I’ll eat my gloves.”
Ed opens his mouth, incipiently triumphant, then remembers today they are black and growls
instead. Mustang smirks. “Predictable.”
It would be very stupid to transmute all his underwear different colors just because of this
and as such Ed’s not gonna do it. He’s not. “They might not have been.”
“Mhm. Go on, I want you to take a look at the chimera.”
Chapter End Notes
mustang, poking ed with a broom: look edward i know ur fundamentally a paranoid
lunatic but for the love of fuck please work with me. We’ve talked about this
ed, crouched on top of his 93748583 trust issues and hissing: no!! no!!
Chapter 25
Chapter Notes
content warning for this chapter: couple sentences of body horror
See the end of the chapter for more notes
They stop in the map room first, where Ed, first through the door - this one doesn’t slam open
for him by disembodied forces, at least - gets a faceful of Hughes.
“Guess what, Ed! No, really, guess!” Hughes says, fully manic. “Here, I’ll make it easy, I’ll
prompt you. How many newspapers do you think they have here? Just gimme a ballpark. Just
take a wild goddamn guess.”
“Fff...five?” Ed says warily, figuring only a stupid answer would have Hughes this crazed.
“One,” Hughes hisses, a single finger thrust out in Ed’s face.
“One?”
“ONE.”
“That can’t be right,” Ed argues.
“That’s what I said,” Arget all but wails from the table.
“That’s… Central alone has like fuckin’ thirty, and we live in a dictatorship,” Ed stresses. “A
military dictatorship.”
“Only one newspaper,” Arget whispers, clutching the notebook on the table in front of her
and staring at nothing. “One.”
“Arget is one of the editors of Monthly Broadcast Engineering,” Jones says apologetically.
“So it’s a little personal.”
The name rings a bell; Ed’s definitely seen that title on some hand-printed little magazines
among the vast drifts of paper in Mustang’s outer office before. “Doesn’t Fuery write for that
on the weekends or something?”
“He’s my co-editor,” Arget mumbles blankly. Jones pats her back in sympathy.
Mustang cuts his eyes to her and then looks pointedly at Ed, so Ed says, gruffly, “Hey. Arget.
Sorry I moved the house around without warning and let a chimera loose that almost ate
you.”
Jones barks a laugh that he tries to turn into a cough, though he does a pretty shit job of
hiding his grin behind his fist. Arget seems to snap out of it, blinking rapidly at Ed and then
once again going tomato red in one violent flush. “It’s fine,” she says squeakily.
“It’s not fine,” Mustang says, because he’s a bastard, “but no one died and we aren’t going to
have any more surprise alchemy, so I suppose all of us now have a new drinking story
courtesy of Fullmetal. Maes, other than your conniptions over the state of the free press - any
concerns?”
“No, there’s a decent chunk of papers here,” Hughes says. “Their numbers are the same as
ours and serious gave us the range of years their terrorists operated in so we’re sorting that
now. This over here - we started plotting deaths he knew of personally, and almost all of them
happened within the victims’ own homes, which was apparently a sort of calling card of their
lord Voldemort. Only three attacks with mass casualties plotted so far - here, here, here.”
He taps each location with a pen; the triangle created by the three glowing red dots is a
distorted isosceles, surrounded by a handful of yellow dots Ed assumes are the individual
murders. “We asked serious to start with incidents that were confirmed to be perpetrated by
the terrorist group. Casualties aren’t exact but he’s certain that in all cases the dead numbered
less than fifty. You tell me if that’s alchemically significant.”
Ed grimaces and shrugs. “It can affect scale,” he says. “The more blood, the bigger the point
on the array.”
“Wonderful. So, not as big as ours was.”
Ed seesaws a hand. “Reserving judgment ‘til we have more data. They might be laying things
out differently. If they’re making an array at all.”
“Sure, let’s be optimistic, why not.” Hughes pushes his glasses up. “The good news is - if we
can trust the information - the majority of the population are non-wizards, and their
government is entirely separate from whatever they’ve got going on in ‘magical’ society. The
magical government doesn’t build roads or any other municipal structures, doesn’t zone
anything, doesn’t do much with infrastructure at all. Of course, they may just be able to
bypass all this with magic, but we may be dealing with a much less entrenched enemy than
initially anticipated.”
“Spectacular,” Mustang says dryly. “Any more good news?”
“Well, the last war in these parts was around sixty years ago, and did not get as far as land
invasion due to this country being this cute little island we see here.” Hughes taps at the map
again and grins in a haha well at least it’s not raining lava! way. “The country isn’t anything
near like a circle either, which as I understand it doesn’t preclude a mass array within the
borders but does limit the size and number of people it’d, you know, gruesomely
alchemically murder. What about you guys?”
“The house is sentient and Mustang wants me to abuse it,” Ed says immediately.
Hughes raises his eyebrows. “I thought you already abused it. Unless there’s another reason
why this entire room gained two new windows, some square footage and shook a pint of
plaster dust onto our heads with an accompanying soundtrack of creepy ghost noises.”
“No, yeah, that - sorry ‘bout it and all, but - the house is reacting to us. And watching us. And
fuckin’ slamming open doors for me when I start to look like I’m gonna go through them -”
“Most likely Fullmetal triggered some kind of dormant magic security system,” Mustang
says. “It seems to be programmed to mimic a personality, however, which means it may be
susceptible to certain pressures.”
Hughes, Jones and Arget cast wary looks around the room. “So, what, do we shoot the walls
a couple times to show it who’s boss?” Hughes says.
“For the sake of our ammunition supply, let’s say Fullmetal and I have it handled.”
“All yours then, you sociopath you,” Hughes says amiably. “Any more disturbing freak
things we should know about?”
“I dearly hope not,” Mustang says. “Though the way things are going I doubt we can rule out
further surprises.”
“You’re telling me. You know the images in photographs here move around?” Hughes says.
Mustang groans. “Who told you?”
“Oh, don’t worry, I’m not bringing back any of this incredibly cursed shit to get anywhere
near my dear Elysia,” Hughes says cheerily. “Though really, Roy? ‘Who told you?’ The
newspapers are right in front of my face. Which one of us went blind that one time, me or
you?”
Mustang half-curls a lip at him in a friendly snarl. “I can’t believe you would make fun of a
veteran’s combat injury. What kind of example are you setting your men, Colonel?”
“Better one than you set yours, General Sadism,” Hughes says. “See this, Corporal, Sergeant?
It’s called poking the tiger and it’s useful, lauded and necessary when the tiger flips an entire
house with you inside it and then comes back, tells you it’s alive and that the plan is to bully
it.”
“You. You get me,” Ed tells Hughes, pointing a finger.
“I would say you of all people know better than to blame me for Fullmetal’s actions, but
clearly you are two of a kind,” Mustang says, faux-icy.
“You’re my CO. Anything I do is your fault,” Ed informs him.
“Hawkeye is your CO. What part of this exactly would you like to be her fault?”
That makes Ed wince slightly. “But you’re her CO, so it’s still your fault really,” he argues.
“Why don’t we present this fascinating deontological question to her when she returns and
see what she might add to the discussion?”
“Ooh, ouch,” Hughes says, leaning back theatrically. “One hit kill. Score point for Mustang.”
“I take it back. You’re dead to me,” Ed tells Hughes disgustedly, which just makes him point
fingerguns back at Ed and wink.
There’s a knock on the door, and Psycho sticks his head in before Jones and Arget can lose
what’s left of their faith in their command structure. “Hairy and them are all feeding buck
beak,” he says. “Your man too. Molly will probably be back soon and she’ll likely want them
to start cleaning again, so probably best to get what help you can now.”
“Certainly,” Mustang says. “Send them on in, if you’re finished?”
Psycho nods and ducks back out, all obedient. “You gonna help out?” Hughes asks Ed and
Mustang, waving his pen at the map.
“Maybe later,” Ed says, jerking a thumb over his shoulder. “Gotta do readings. Plus I got
like… eight hundred years of mold to deal with.”
“Chimera,” Mustang reminds him.
Ed scowls. “Fine. But then I’m gonna fix the mold.”
“And I’m going to supervise,” Mustang says, in the tones of a wearied prisoner asking when
the torture will end. “Call us back when you need to see an array.”
They step out, turning for the room they can hear muffled voices from at the far end of the
hall, just as there’s a loud creak from behind them. Ed and Mustang both turn to see a door at
the very other end slowly and dramatically swing open.
Nobody comes in, or out, or otherwise gives any sign of being anywhere near it. They aren’t
anywhere near it, and so far the invisible crazed footman door-slamming has only happened
in pretty close proximity.
They both watch it for a long minute. It had been a pretty significantly loud creak. “More
haunted fuckin’ house shit?” Ed says.
“Probably.”
“Is it just me or does that seem like an invitation to you?” Ed says resignedly.
“Unfortunately.”
“Well, if it’s another chimera, it probably would’ve jumped out at us by now,” Ed grumbles,
and heads over to see what the fuck the house wants. The house. Ed wants to hit himself in
the head with a rock.
There’s a faint sound from the doorway as he steps up to it, and for a second his stride falters
because he - had to have imagined it. It’s a slick, chesty kind of sound, like trying to breathe
through the really bad kind of pneumonia, only not quite. It’s not soaked lungs that make that
breathing noise, it’s nonviable ones.
He knows that sound.
Ed stops. Inside the room is dim, but not enough. Wetness glistens on a cracked-open ribcage.
Organs splay out from a steaming, broken shape, and there’s blood everywhere but it doesn’t
hide the blond hair, the upturned face. Al stares up at him from the floor, eyes horribly,
guttingly open. Awake. Aware.
“Fullmetal.”
It can’t be real. There is no possible way it’s real, Al would have to be dead and buried and
transmuted, this is, a hallucination, he’s had them before, he knows how vivid they can be,
this is not real -
Mustang’s grip bites his shoulder and then Mustang’s ahead of him, striding towards the door.
Ed jerks forward after him, because he shouldn’t, nobody should see - only Mustang stops
hard just like Ed did, sucking in breath like a gasp, and Ed sees the blond of the hair change,
going lighter - sees the thing bubble and twist as it mutates into Hawkeye, blood spurting,
gushing from her neck -
“Down,” Mustang snarls, and reflex has Ed already ducking from the first syllable. With a
snap the inside of the room explodes into flame, Mustang yanking Ed to the side and out of
the doorway as the air rushes past them in a massive WHOOMPH.
“What the fuck,” Ed gasps, slamming his back to the wall, adrenaline clearing his system,
arms up to clap or protect his face in case of even closer-range explosions. “What the fuck
was that?”
“Trying to trick us,” Mustang says icily, and snaps again. Fire booms.
“Think it’s dead yet?” Ed cranes to see around Mustang; his explosions don’t produce much
smoke since the fuel is usually just O and H, but there’s a thick grey haze billowing out the
door that’s making it impossible to see through.
“Let’s make sure,” Mustang says, and snaps a third time.
“Yeah, okay, it’s fucking dead,” Ed says as the boom dies away, grabbing Mustang’s forearm
and using it to press him against the wall enough to let Ed see around the doorway. Not that
he’s opposed to thoroughly torching the fuck out of whatever Envy-knockoff thing was
capable of - showing them that - fuck, it’ll have been getting into their heads. In that last
second Ed recognized the fake-Hawkeye’s coat from the Promised day, that distinctive
bloodstain down her neck that spoke to a failed slit throat, and where else could that have
come from but their own minds?
That thing on the floor hadn’t gotten the memo about the failed part. Mustang clearly did not
appreciate being shown his favorite teammate with her throat cut, because there’s nothing left
in the room but a thinning grey haze in the air. The space itself looks undamaged save for
some pretty impressive scorch marks on the walls, ceiling and floor, because even that riled
Mustang apparently has the presence of mind not to burn down the building he’s currently
inside of. He didn’t even blow out the windows.
The faint crackle of active alchemy dies, and Ed becomes aware that Mustang kept the circle
on his glove active until just now, hand held a couple of inches from Ed’s ear by the way Ed’s
gripping his forearm. Letting the transmutation go means he also isn’t seeing anything else
that needs blowing up, so Ed releases his grip.
There’s also nothing that even slightly resembles a corpse. “No body - how fucking hard did
you hit it? Was that even oxygen?”
“Standard array,” Mustang says, distractedly terse. “That isn’t the usual kind of smoke for
burnt organics. Either its body wasn’t meat or it can also teleport.”
Ed squints at the grey haze. It looks kind of greasy, almost, drifting slowly and clinging low
to the ground. “Looks like at least some of it got particulated.” Fucking gross. Good thing it’s
staying low; fuck knows he doesn’t want to inhale that shit.
They both cautiously stick their heads in the room, scoping it out from either side. “Whatever
it is, looks gone now,” Ed says, taking a step inside and doing a 360, checking the ceiling and
corners as well. Breathing is heady: Mustang was concentrating oxygen in here right until the
last minute and it’s still dissipating. “Looks like there was only one of the fuckin’ things.”
Adrenaline chased the cold out of his veins, but between that and the O2 he’s now ramped to
the eyeballs and starting to get pissed about it. Fuck, he’s had that nightmare about Al. “What
was that?”
“You… merlin’s tits,” comes Psycho’s voice, kind of blankly. Ed and Mustang turn; Psycho’s
standing in the hall with his stick held out in front of him, a shimmery blue haze spread out in
a vague circle ahead of him like a kind of shield. It winks out as Mustang steps back out of
the room, Ed behind him, and Psycho lowers the stick but keeps staring at them with a kind
of half-thoughtful, half-impressed look on his face.
“Roy?” Hughes calls from down the hall, through the door of the map room. “You dead or
what?”
“You wish,” Mustang calls back, still eyeing Psycho right back. “All present and accounted
for?”
“Yeah, we’re fine. We good to open the door?”
“Yes. Havoc?”
“Down the hall, chief,” Havoc calls, muffled. “Kids’re all with me. All clear?”
“Clear.” Hughes’ door opens first, then Havoc’s, both of them taking a cautious scan of the
hallway before stepping out with their sidearms still in their hands. Smart of them; when you
hear the Flame Alchemist unexpectedly fucking shit up nearby that means things have gone
really wild and the best thing you can do is batten down and not get in the line of fire.
Though Havoc and Hughes would’ve leapt right in, probably, because they’re the kind of
maniacs that voluntarily hang with Mustang. Only this time Havoc had the kids and Hughes
had Jones and Arget.
“So,” Hughes says, coming over to peer into the room that’s still emitting eddies of haze.
“What was that about no more surprise alchemy?”
“We encountered a hostile,” Mustang says calmly, still watching Psycho who’s watching him
right back. “Something capable of shapeshifting and most likely some form of mind reading,
given it turned itself into people we know in situations we would react to with… volatility.
Do you have an idea of what that might have been?” he says to Psycho. “Or how it came to
be in the house?”
“Sounds like a bog art,” Psycho says carefully. “Me and Molly thought there might be one up
here, from all the rattling. We thought it was in that desk there, but it might’ve got knocked
loose when everything… moved around.”
Mustang’s tone is still all nice and polite, but there’s no hint of charm anymore. “And what
exactly is that?”
“A bog art,” Psycho says. “It’s - a pest, kind of. You get them a lot in old houses and things.
It shows you your worst fear.”
They all just kind of stare at him. Ed’s pretty sure he’s gone permanently mute with
incredulity. A pest. All he can think is thank fuck Mustang turned the thing into particulate
smog from the word go, because everyone else would have much more destructive reactions
to a telepathic trauma episode shoved in their face. Hawkeye, Havoc and probably even
Hughes would’ve emptied their clips into the thing, and Ed really would have brought the
house down. Mustang can control the fire down to the millimeter, which is not something that
can be said for bullet ricochet. These walls and floorboards are all plaster and wood, too, and
Hawkeye’s .45 cal sidearm would go through them like a meteor strike through marzipan and
god help whoever happened to be on the other side.
“For what?” Mustang says.
Psycho looks at him. “What?”
“That wasn’t a lure,” Mustang says. “Showing someone something they fear doesn’t draw
them in. It’s not a prey lure, so it’s not using that to feed. What purpose does it serve?”
“To scare you away, I guess,” Psycho says. “Get you to leave it alone?”
Everybody looks at the new wallpaper of scorch marks that redecorated pretty much
everything in the room. “Huh,” Hughes says. “I’d say most people don’t have a startle reflex
like Roy’s, but honestly that’s not even close to true. They just wouldn’t hit it with fire.”
“Not everyone has a flight response,” Mustang says evenly. “Can it teleport?”
”What?”
”Apparate,” Ed says tersely. “Can it do that?”
”No?”
They all look back at the open door to the scorched room. “That seems to be taken care of,
then,” Mustang says. “For something capable of extracting specific information telepathically
and at a distance, using such to show people nightmares… somewhat of a waste, I think.”
Nightmares. What they saw had been grounded a little deeper than that. Hawkeye had almost
gotten her throat cut. Ed sees the scar sometimes when she’s putting up her hair or adjusting
her jacket. And that was exactly what Al would look like, if he’d died, and Ed had dug him
up just like he did to Mom and tried to bring him back.
“A pest,” he says aloud. “A fuckin’ pest. The house opened that door for us. It wanted us to
see it.”
“Probably wanted you to get rid of it,” Psycho volunteers. “They can get pretty nasty if
they’re left to grow in some old dump like this.”
“Nasty,” Ed repeats, then doesn’t say anything else because his brain, voice box and tongue
have all ceased cooperating in an arguably self-defensive maneuver to prevent him from
explaining, in full detail, just what nasty is.
“I don’t think this building qualifies as a safe house,” Arget says, then snaps her mouth shut
and kind of ducks when Ed hacks out a surprised laugh.
“You are absolutely correct, Corporal,” Mustang says. “Let’s change that. Havoc, with me.
We’ll be clearing the building room by room. Maes?”
“We’re in here,” Hughes promises, holstering his sidearm and patting it. “You taking
serious?”
“Yes. We’d appreciate it if you’d join us,” Mustang tells Psycho, in a cordial way that doesn’t
even try to hide that it’s an order. “I’m sure you know the house best. Fullmetal, take the
children outside.”
Ed rolls his shoulders. Everything still feels a touch too sharp, and he needs to see Al here
and alive and whole in a way that feels like a misaligned automail-nerve connection in his
lungs. He probably should go outside. Mustang can handle anything the house throws at him,
and he has Havoc to watch his back, and honestly even babysitting doesn’t sound like too bad
a price to feel some sun on his face right now. “Fine.”
There’s a clicking, chirping kind of noise. An eagle head the size of a horse pokes out of the
door Havoc and the kids came out of, curving around to look at them with unblinking golden
eyes. It cocks his head inquisitively and makes the clicking chirp again.
“Oh, he’s awake,” Psycho says, heading over. “I hit him with a Somnium when we heard - all
that -” he waves back over his shoulder - “to make sure we wouldn’t have any accidents.
Hello, lad,” he adds, patting at the thing’s massive neck. “In you go. Come on, look, there’s a
nice big bone left for you there, go ahead and shred that up.”
“You’re right. I do need to be outside,” Ed says to no one in particular. He’ll come back and
see about giving the thing a skylight or something. Make sure it has fresh air. Later. Just -
later. “Right. Shit - hold on.”
He claps and presses a hand to the wall. An approximate floor layout of the three stories and
cellar scores itself in the plaster in rough lines. Psycho might be going with them but at this
point wizards are basically on the same level of reliability and helpfulness as marmalade
hammers. “Map.”
“Thank you,” Mustang says, stepping over to examine it. “We’ll come get you when it’s
done.”
“Go on,” Psycho says to the kids. “Won’t take long. Probably spare you some of the cleaning,
eh?”
They don’t exactly need that ringing endorsement to cluster eagerly around Ed like a bunch
of teenage idiot moths. Everyone here is dangerously close to getting a lesson on personal
space bubbles; Hairy and Not A Twin are now his current favorites based solely on the fact
that they’re staying well away from him. “Let’s go,” Ed says shortly, pivoting on his heel and
eeling between the twins to head for the stairs.
He’ll snag the analytical equipment on his way out. He can probably take readings just as
well outside the house as in; the shimmer had been all over the whole thing, after all.
Chapter End Notes
mustang: wow that was traumatic. we should probably make sure we work through that.
fullmetal, go outside and sniff a flower. do a therapeutic pushup or something
ed: what about you
mustang, cocking gun: oh, i’m going to therapy too
intermission
“So,” Roy murmurs to Havoc as they make their way down the third floor main hallway.
Black is ahead of them, opening doors first; no sense risking his own people on point when
the owner of the house is there to do it. If there are any more lovely little surprises Black can
take the brunt of them himself. “The chimera. The…” Roy shapes his mouth carefully over
the foreign word, “hippogriff.”
“Big bastard,” Havoc agrees. “Ate a couple kilos of cow in like five seconds right in front of
me. Did fine with the kids, though - they were careful, though, weren’t horsing around or
teasing it or anything. And when we heard you go off he -” Havoc indicates Black with a roll
of his shoulder, keeping his pistol pointed at the ground - “got it quick with one of their lights
from a stick things and it hit the ground snoring.”
Havoc keeps looking down the corridor - they’re on either side of the doorway Black entered
with his wand out, facing each other to see over each others’ shoulders both ways - but his
eyes flick to Roy’s for a second. “And... you know I’m no expert, but… it seemed cooped up,
yeah, but didn’t look to be hurting.”
Roy sighs. There are many, many, many things he would rather be doing than once again
hunting nightmares in some miserable dank corridor with Havoc - once was enough; he
hasn’t got the room on his torso for another godsdamn burn scar and Havoc’s already had one
miracle worked on his spine - and dealing with a chimera is unfortunately one of them.
Edward had gone and made himself an expert - utterly incapable, in true Elric fashion, of
leaving well enough alone, the damn brat - and as such kept mildly retraumatizing himself on
the regular. Roy won’t even put a stop to it, because far better to have Edward investigate
those cases than someone an ounce less compassionate or less capable.
And so he gives the order, every time. “I’ll have Fullmetal take a look at it.”
“Right.” Havoc chews his unlit cigarette. “Honest opinion, chief?”
“Why not.”
“Ed gets to that thing up close, he’s either gonna kill it dead or ride it home and set it up in
the garage next to his motorcycle.”
Roy considers the odds. “....I will not have Fullmetal take a look at it.”
“Yeah. Probably for the best.”
Black pokes his head back out of the room. “Looks all clear in here. Long as you don’t mind
curtains full of Doxies.”
“Doxies,” Roy repeats.
“Like fairies,” Black says helpfully. He makes a little size box with his hands. “Little blue
people. About this big. Vicious little bastards - don’t let ‘em fly close, they bite and their
venom’ll make you woozy.”
“Little… blue people,” Havoc repeats slowly. “That fly.”
“Oh yeah,” Black agrees cheerfully. “Wanna see?”
Roy hates this fucking place. He can feel it giving him wrinkles.
Chapter 27
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The sun is high in the sky when they step out into the scrubby front yard, which seems utterly
bizarre to Ed and even more so when he realizes they were eating lunch less than an hour
ago. He picks a dry-looking patch of grass near the wall, sets the equipment pack down and
then sits crosslegged beside it to start working his bracers back on. He’d had the presence of
mind to grab them on the way out as well, and at this point he doesn’t give a shit if they make
him less approachable. Anything damn well approaching him had better take a look at him
and think twice.
“What are those?” Miss Redhead says, because once again the kids have decided to arrange
themselves around him like he’s a never before seen zoo animal.
“Party gloves,” Ed says sarcastically. “What do they look like?”
Miss Redhead scratches her nose. “Kinda like what my brother puts on to touch dragons?”
“Dragons,” Ed says, then decides wholesale he’s just not gonna fucking go there.
Smartypants takes the moment to jump in with her own concerns. “What happened upstairs?
We only heard a lot of loud - noises.”
“Explosions,” a twin says. “We heard explosions.”
“Yeah, that was Mustang,” Ed says, disgruntled. “Taking care of one of your bog arts. Or
whatever the fuck it was. Dead now, in any case.”
“He blew it up?” Not A Twin says. “Little much for a bog art, in it?”
Ed turns a look on him. He’s been told his eyes look creepy when he stares all blank - thanks,
Winry, way to compliment a guy - and he hopes that’s coming the fuck across now. “If you
tell me this is another thing you wizards deal with using happy thoughts, I’m going to riot.”
The twins snicker. “You said I was possessed and it was giving me telepathy,” Hairy says,
seizing the wheel of the conversation and jerking it hard left before Not A Twin can put his
baffled pissy look into words. “Is that true?
Ed shrugs and starts pulling the measuring equipment out of the pack for the third freakin’
time today, flexing his hands to settle the bracers some. “Dunno.”
“You don’t know?”
“It’s classified.”
“Classified? It’s my bloody head!”
“And it’s classified,” Ed tells him. “Congratulations. Not everybody has that. We can make
you a little Top Secret stamp for your forehead if you like.”
“It wasn’t classified before,” Smartypants says intently as Hairy simmers. “You said dumbell
door said there was a prophecy, and what you said about there being only one guard on Hairy,
and how he disappeared - that can’t have been classified, you said it in front of everybody.”
“Sure it was. I just didn’t have a reason to care,” Ed says, turning on the spectrum analyzer
and making sure the EMF reader is hooked up. It’s the third fuckin’ time he’s had to lay all
this shit out; he’s getting the damn data this time or else.
“And now you do care?”
“Yup.”
Smartypants and Miss Redhead exchange looks in his peripheral vision. “What if we give
you a reason to… not care again?” Miss Redhead says slowly.
Ed snorts. Oh, that’s gonna be hilarious. “Sure, why not. Gimme your best bribe.”
“Oh, you rate our best, do you?” a twin says jovially; those two really come across a lot like
Paninya, in her happy-go-lucky, my-knees-are-artillery-canons, anything-is-fun-so-long-asit’s-not-boring way. At least somebody’s happy.
“My hourly rate for alchemical consulting is sixteen thousand cenz. For context, the monthly
rent on my apartment is nineteen thousand,” Ed says, not looking up from the EMF reader.
“Do the math. Y’ain’t got my kind of currency, obviously, but you want something from me,
you better know I don’t come cheap. Oh, and remember you’re starting in the hole, ‘cause
you already owe me.”
“For what,” Hairy snaps.
“For when we went to visit you instead of the library, after they deliberately withheld
information,” Ed says, looking up long enough to point his pen at Hairy. “And for after when
I saved your life. And hers, and his, and theirs.”
He sticks the pen in his teeth to dig back into the bag while they figure their way through
that; sure enough there’s a spare handheld radio in there. He flips it on, toggles to 91.5 on
automatic - Central traffic, weather and daily news - and is vaguely pleased to hear crackly
music wander out of the speaker. Good to know people this side of the anomaly at least use
radio. Wizards probably don’t, but at least the rest of the population maybe isn’t too insane.
Magic disrupting electrical equipment. It certainly hasn’t affected his automail, but then his
leg is shielded pretty fucking thoroughly against electrical discharge; he had the usual
insulation on the inner cords and shit but on the current version Winry coated it with
something that made the metal surfaces matte and doesn’t even transmit static shock. (He had
gone on an electrical alchemy kick when rewiring the Rockbell house during Al’s recovery
and maybe slightly a little bit electrocuted himself. Winry slapped the shit out of him, took
his leg away and made him hop for an entire day and a half while she muttered dire threats
and cooked up whatever polymer she dunked his leg in. He’s also now forbidden from
existing in that house without socks, even with the damn coating, just because he accidentally
brushed a live electrical array with his metal toes once -)
The house really hasn’t affected any of their equipment so far. It seems pretty fuckin’ full of
magic shit - on top of presumably being covered in magic top to bottom, to power and control
the fucking…. door opening security system…. and this radio works fine, though it was
turned off the whole time it was inside. He definitely saw Jones and Arget testing radios,
though, and they would’ve said something if anything had just up and gone dead.
Maybe it needs direct interaction? Ed spits out the pen. “Yo, one of you do a spell at this,” he
says aloud, holding up the radio. Time to find out what kind of attenuation he’s gonna need, if
any.
“Sure. If you tell us about the prophecy,” Miss Redhead says sweetly.
It takes Ed a blank second to remember what the fuck that’s all about, but when he does he
rolls his eyes. “Pff. That’s not worth what you’re asking me.” He’ll just test on magic objects
and then get Psycho or whoever to do some spells later. Would just a straight-up Faraday
cage block all magic, if it turns out to just be essentially an EMP effect? But no, that wouldn’t
disrupt any magic within the shielded area. Would it? He’s gonna have to test that.
The kids are being suspiciously quiet again, and when Ed glances up to check on that Hairy
still looks like he wants to bite and Smartypants and Miss Redhead are exchanging deeply
charged looks of the Plotting Girl variety. “We can apparate,” Smartypants says, turning back
to Ed when she sees him looking. “We can take you wherever you need to go.”
Ed gives her a really? look. “Only two of you can do it legally, and I bet your parents are
gonna have a lot to say about you doing that for me regardless.”
“We wouldn’t tell them,” Miss Redhead says, sounding scandalized at the prospect.
“Taking a minor somewhere without their parents’ knowledge or permission is kidnapping,”
Ed says, unimpressed. “Why the hell would I want to get involved in that when there’s adult
wizards to zap me places? Try again.”
Smartypants chews her lip, eyes sharp. “You know… we don’t have to be helping you read
those newspapers.”
That gets Ed to focus. Smartypants looks a little alarmed to see him grin. “From bribes
straight to threats? You sure you wanna ante up like that?”
Her eyes narrow and she lifts her chin. “You’re the one who told me to try blackmail.”
“First, that’s not blackmail, that’s extortion. Second, you sure you wanna practice on me?”
Smartypants’ nostrils flare slightly. Her eyes narrow further until she’s glaring at Ed like he
slapped her with a dueling glove and dropped it at her feet. “Fred,” she says imperiously.
“George.”
“Well, well, well, miss Granger,” one twin says.
“Are you really asking little old us -”
“- to get involved for you? After all -
“- we thought you liked Mister Elric here. Why, he doesn’t even know -”
“- our reputation.”
Smartypants raises her chin a little higher. “First two months of term, I don’t report anything
I see to any professor. Ron won’t either.”
“Hermione,” Not A Twin exclaims.
“Three months,” Smartypants says, ignoring him.
“Why, Prefect Granger,” a twin says.
“That’s a very handsome offer.”
“But I think you know -”
“- we’re going to need a little more.”
Smartypants doesn’t look away from glaring at Ed like he took the last cup of coffee in the
break room and didn’t put on a new pot. “I’ll look over two of your products and give
whatever spell assistance I can.”
“Three,” a twin says instantly.
“Done,” Smartypants says, and the twins extend a hand each - opposite ones, so Smartypants
can shake them both simultaneously.
“You have a deal,” the twins chorus, then turn identical shark grins on Ed.
“So, Mister Elric,” one of them says. Ed raises his eyebrows and wonders if this kind of thing
is what Winry’s talking about when she complains about his and Al’s ‘matchy creepy doll
smiles’.
“We don’t believe we’ve been properly introduced.”
“We’re the Weasley twins.”
“He’s Gred -”
“- and he’s forge. Proprietors of Weasley’s wizard wheezes, masters of mayhem and problemsolvers extraordinaire. We’re delighted to welcome you to our humble acquaintance -”
“- and thrilled to see where it will go.” They both bow at the waist with added flourishes,
which they manage with impressively practiced coordination even sitting on the ground.
As performances go it’s not a bad one, even if half the words don’t mean anything to him.
“Ed Elric. Fullmetal Alchemist,” Ed says, twiddling his fingers in a wave. “Professional
fucker upper. I got a brother too but he ain’t here yet so unlucky you, me is all you get.”
“An absolute pleasure,” one twin says.
“Simply a charm.”
“We only hope you feel the same.”
“Because we like you, Mister Elric.”
“We like you and we feel a kindred spirit in you.”
“So let us be the first to ask -”
“- what is it you want, Mister Elric?”
Ed raises his eyebrows further and sits back, considering them. Smartypants is watching him
close but doesn’t seem to need to add anything despite the obvious Type A personality; Miss
Redhead looks eager and Not A Twin’s landed squarely in fatalistic disgust. Hairy’s still
glaring at Ed in a way that might be meant to be intimidating but really mostly reminds Ed of
that time Al tried to housetrain a feral kitten.
The twins’ double act sideshow aside, it’s a serious question. What does he want?
Well, to start with, to not fucking be here. Or for at least here to not be so prodigiously
batshit. Failing that, huo guo for dinner. A really hot shower. A nap. Al within touching
distance and provably not sprawled inside out and transmuted anywhere on any floor.
So, realistically, nothing these dandelions can give him, but it’s probably better to think in
more practical and immediate terms. What can he use them for, and all that.
Well, he needs Hairy to get his ass babysat so Ed can take his readings in un-telepathicallyspied-on peace. Phrasing that in a way that won’t make it super suspicious is gonna be
annoying, and saying ‘you, Hairy, go over there and don’t look at what we’re doing’ is
probably gonna go over about as well as ‘all of you, go over there and play pattycake or get
drunk or whatever it is teens do and don’t look at what I’m doing’.
Man, if only one of this posse wasn’t a living fuckdamn intel leak, then Ed would have
himself a team of baby research assistants… who can’t read Amestrisan. Or write it. Probably
can’t be trusted to accurately read off the numbers on all the equipment too.
Never fucking mind.
Maybe they can stick around while he gets his data? It’s not like the terrorists are any more
likely to read Amestrisan than the kids are. Though they might not have to be able to read it
to recognize the equipment and guess at what Ed’s trying to do; Smartypants had recognized
the voltmeter, after all. Best not to risk it.
He can’t even send them out on an errand to buy him snacks or something. Well, maybe he
can send a twin. Teleporting in and out is probably safe enough to risk transit. Though when
they went out to take the metro it seemed like only Smartypants had money. And fuck, right,
everything’s segregated: out of these cult children Smartypants had been the only one to
know what she was doing, period. Maybe he can send her out for snacks.
Only they’re all probably already marked as known associates of Hairy, who the state just
tried to kill. Yeah, they’re not leaving this yard.
So they’re all stuck here, unable to do anything for Ed that Ed might even remotely want
them to do. When Teacher wanted him and Al close enough to keep an eye on but not
interrupting her she’d either set them to chores or training, but he’s not about to assign them
housework and he highly doubts these sugar crisps will be able to handle running laps ‘til
they drop or an hour of walking around only on their hands.
The super duper intense looks on Smartypants’ and Hairy’s faces say they aren’t gonna leave
him alone when they get back inside, either. Shit, maybe Ed’ll just offload them onto
Mustang and tell him to name a price. The guy’s good at wringing use out of teenagers.
Making ‘em translate newspapers, case in point. That’s half Ed’s stupid job, anyway, luring
people into Mustang’s scheming little claws via the transitive property of favors so he can
trick Amestris better one backroom handshake at a time.
And if Ed hands this bouquet of babies to Mustang he’ll immediately turn them into hostages
to leverage against their parents or something. If they toddle up to him all innocent and ask
him what he wants they’re going to get fleeced within an inch of their lives. Man, these kids
have gotta learn not to just barge up to the first idiot who looks like he knows something and
make it desperately obvious that they don’t. Not everybody is as nice as Ed and Mustang.
Ed sighs hugely. He can’t fucking believe he’s doing this. “First off. When I have something
you want, you don’t fucking ask me to name my price. Especially if you don’t know me, or
what my goals are. There are better techniques to sound out what I might ask for - open offers
make you look desperate and tell me you didn’t do your research. She did it right -” Ed points
at Smartypants - “she used translation work, something she knows for a fact we want, and
leveraged that. Where she went wrong is switching from offer to threat so fast and so
obviously. That’s a real risky move, ‘cause when you dangle a treat and then yank it away it
makes people pissed, and threats are something you back yourself into a corner with.”
The intense staring is tending more towards confusion now. It’s a little weird to be on this end
of things, because usually Mustang yammers on about this kind of shit after Ed’s gone and
brought shame to the honor of all manipulators everywhere or whatever and he lives in denial
of there being a next time. It’s a little less weird to think of it like a reversal of Al’s lectures
about Learning To Negotiate And Have You Heard Of This Thing Called Tact, Brother.
Plus, well, he’s started, so now he might as well finish. “Once you threaten someone, you
can’t take it back. You have to be one hundred percent prepared to take on how I might
respond to being threatened, and you have to be one hundred percent committed to following
through on the threat if your demands aren’t met. You don’t follow through, you lose all
credibility instantly and boom, you’re a joke, nobody takes you seriously ever again.”
He cocks his head at them, not smiling anymore. “So. You offered me a treat, then you took it
back and threatened me. How am I going to respond?”
Smartypants looks taken aback but the twins both start clapping, looking once again
delighted and way too much like a couple of gangly ginger Paninyas for Ed’s health. “That
was magnificent. Is there more?” one of them says earnestly.
“What would you do?” the other one says with interest. “You wouldn’t get away with hexing
us - that’d look bad, wouldn’t it, an officer like you mixing it with some poor little kids? And
telling on us would just get us yelled at -”
“- which we already get every day of the week. What’s the worst you could do?”
Ed feels his eyebrows creep up again at that. “My worst?” Goodness. These kids really are
babies. “Well, if I was feeling a real asshole, I’d just turn you all over to Mustang.”
Miss Redhead snorts. “It’d look even worse for him to hex us,” she says confidently. “He’s
supposed to be the boss of you all. And we haven’t even done anything wrong. We’re just
asking questions. He wouldn’t be able to get away with hurting us either.”
Ed barks a laugh before he can stop it. “Oh, he’s not gonna hurt you,” he says. “He’s a
politician. Why fuck you up when he can get better use out of you whole?”
“Politician?” Smartypants says narrowly. “In the military?”
Ed waves a hand. “In Amestris, same thing. The point is, where I’m bad he’s worse. I’m up
front. With him you won’t even realize you’re getting screwed. He’ll have you sign away
your life and come off still owing him a favor. And there’s people way the fuck worse than
him out there, so if you start your angling by swanning in all cute and threatening strangers
blind you’re gonna get your asses used like a kitchen dishrag.”
“Wow, worse than him? After all that?” Hairy says sarcastically. “Who’d be worse, Satan?”
Ed frowns. “Who?”
Not A Twin also frowns at Hairy. “Your big red guy? The one underground?”
“No, that’s Santa claws,” Miss Redhead corrects. “Satan is the one with the horns.”
Claws? Horns? “What the fuck are you talking about?” Ed says.
Smartypants looks like she wants to put her face in her hands and scream a little bit. “We are
talking about how Hairy’s in danger, and everyone is keeping secrets from him,” she says
pointedly. “Secrets that could put him in danger. Including you. You want me to threaten you
better? Tell me why we shouldn’t go to Mustang and tell him you offered to sell us your
classified information, anything we wanted to know. It’ll be our word against yours, and all
of us will swear you did it.”
Ed starts laughing; he can’t help it. “Oh fuck - please, can we? Fuck, I’d pay money to see
that. Oh my god.” He’d get that writeup framed: name: ED ELRIC, charge: HIGH
TREASON, grounds: SOLD SECRETS to WIZARDS (UNDERAGE). “ Good instinct, though,
to keep looking for leverage,” he tells Smartypants; he needed that laugh. “For a situation
like this, though, you’re better off tabling the talk so you can do some research on your target
and come back ready to actually land a hit. Oh, and make sure you’ve got a way to check
your sources. What’s stopping me from squeezing you for favors, making up some totally
random shit and telling you it’s the prophecy? Never trust intel that comes from only one
source.”
Smartypants is now looking at him like she wants to strangle him with his own braid. It’s a
look Ed sees often on people. “Maybe we’ll go to mister Mustang anyway, tell him you told
us about the prophecy and see how he reacts,” she says. “You wouldn’t be able to disprove it.
If he asks us to say what it is we’ll just clam up and say we’re scared of you retaliating - you
know that’s believable. If we say that in an order meeting in front of everybody I’m sure that
would create a situation you’d much rather avoid.”
“Sure, that might work,” Ed allows. “If Mustang wasn’t Mustang.” And if the classified bit
wasn’t just an excuse for not compromising opsec around Terrorist Radio Four-Eyes over
here. “You don’t know how he operates. That’s more research you gotta do, by the way, if
you wanna spare yourself any grief later. You wanna kick some shit up the chain, you wanna
be real sure how it’s gonna get received. Also, cute gambit. ‘Tell us stuff or we’ll say you
told us stuff’? That’s a new one.”
“It’ll make trouble for you,” Smartypants says coldly. “Dumbell door’s not going to be happy
when he hears you’re willing to sell the order’s secrets if the price is right.”
Ed pffts again. “Why would I care what he’s happy about?”
“Your officer would have to deal with it, though,” a twin says reasonably. “Are you sure
about how that’s gonna be received?”
Ed rolls his eyes. “The only thing Mustang gives a shit about is getting promoted and styling
his hair. He’s not gonna get worked up over whether some foreign schoolteacher thinks he’s
toeing the line or not.”
Not A Twin’s mouth drops open. “Some schoolteacher?”
“Dumbell door is the most powerful wizard in great Britain,” Smartypants says intently.
“Even Voldemort is afraid of him. He’s the reason we aren’t already all living under death
eater rule. Every time Voldemort made an attack on the ministry dumbell door held him off.
The only reason they didn’t make him minister after the war is that he refused. He’s not
‘some teacher’.”
She looks very serious and very seriously into the idea of Beardy being her wizard superstar,
so Ed decides to meet her where she’s at. “Look, none of you even know where the fuck
Amestris is, so I get it, Beardy seems like a real big deal to you guys. Hell, around here, he
probably is. But unlucky me, I’ve seen Mustang work for nearly, shit, like ten fuckin’ years
now, and believe me when I say he’d waltz Beardy like a debutante on prom night. Probably
get a thank you for it, too. He’s fucking untouchable. The bastard led a coup and lived. Shit,
he led a coup and won.”
Not A Twin frowns. “A what?”
“It’s when you forcibly take over a government,” Smartypants says, now back to eyeing Ed
with something like wariness.
“He tried to take over the government?” Not A Twin demands. “Like Voldemort’s doing?”
“He didn’t try,” Ed says, mildly offended on Mustang’s behalf; he may be a bastard but
comparing him to some maniac like lord bucatini and his In This Cadre We Make Tactical
Decisions Based On Prophecy reputation is just embarrassing. “He did it.”
“But he’s not the leader of your country, is he?” Smartypants says, eyes narrowing again.
“No,” Ed admits, not bothering to add not yet. “He was too injured, after. And he had some
other stuff to do.” Like get the ball rolling on Ishval reconstruction and be enough of a
heavyweight to make any old-guard assholes think twice about trying to stymie anything.
Then Ed lets his grin split again, because Grumman is a wild old coot but he’s decent and
sticking him in the Central Office was a pretty hilarious trick on Mustang’s part. “So he
installed his best friend’s grandpa as leader instead.”
“That’s nepotism,” Smartypants says, now halfway to horrified.
“That’s common sense,” Ed tells her. “He was the highest-ranking general in Mustang’s
faction and he was old-guard enough to appease the establishment fuckers who were still
hanging on. He’s not a fucking psychopath like some of the others and he’s not gonna order
any suppressions or mass executions or outright fuckin’ genocide, which let me tell you is a
big step up from the last guy.”
He’s also not a murderous homunculus, but that’s just kind of a bonus given what regular ol’
humans manage to get up to in positions of power. “So no, Mustang wouldn’t hurt you. Most
likely he’d leverage you over your parents, ‘cause it’s not like you have much else to offer.”
Everybody looks kind of appalled about this. “Some of us haven’t got parents,” Hairy says,
glaring at Ed.
“Yeah, and that puts you in a pretty shit position,” Ed tells him frankly. “Right now,
politically, you’re most useful to us. Your government is trying to kill you and that makes you
a liability to this whole vigilante op, and the guy who seems to care the most about whether
you live or die is a wanted convict too. Getting rid of both of you would lower risk for the
whole group and make a lot of problems disappear. Somebody decided to put only one guard
on you. Somebody wants to separate you from everybody else and send you back to stay
where the attack happened. You tell me who that somebody is. You’ve got nobody in this
order of the whatever who’ll advocate for your safety with any kind of clout behind them,
and I guess because Beardy’s such a rockstar from what we’ve seen nobody’s even thinking
of questioning anything he does.”
This time the staring is a lot of doe-eyed betrayed shock. Ed’s guessing nobody’s quite laid
the situation out like that for them so far. “He’s got us,” Not A Twin says fiercely after a
second, but even he looks kind of shaken.
“And that’s something, at least,” Ed allows. “Anybody tries to stick him somewhere away
from all of you and post another conveniently disappearing guard, you all stall like hell while
one of you runs and gets one of us.” He makes hard eye contact with the other kids one at a
time, then leans in and fixes Hairy with a look. “For now - stick with your friends. Don’t go
anywhere alone. Especially you two,” he says, gesturing between him and Miss Redhead. “If
you realize you’ve been separated from the group, get the fuck back to them as quick as you
can.”
“Maybe it was like… bait,” a twin says hesitantly, more subdued than Ed’s seen either of
them so far. “Maybe that’s why dumbell door had Hairy without more guards. Maybe he was
trying to lure death eaters out to get rid of them.”
“Then there should’ve been an assault team that came busting in as soon as those fuckin’
dementer things showed up,” Ed says directly. “Not a couple of civilians tracking us down
forty minutes later having hysterics about how we all almost died. Did that look like a wellsprung trap to you?”
Their faces say it didn’t. “You still haven’t told us anything,” Hairy says tightly, apparently
still convinced Ed’s not on his side or something. “Don’t think we haven’t noticed.”
“Yeah, because you haven’t made it worth it,” Ed says patiently. Not that they could make it
worth it to compromise opsec, but it’s not like they need to know that. “And ‘scuse you, I just
gave you a shitton of tips on how not to get your asses clocked when you run around trying to
dig up what people don’t want you to know. Which racks up more debt in your column as far
as I’m concerned.”
“We need to know about what’s going on. Hairy needs to know. Voldemort’s trying to kill
him,” Smartypants says, low and insistent. “And you just said - that dumbell door -”
She breaks off, face twisting. It does suck hard ass to discover people you thought were allies
are actually maybe not so much. Or that they’re just really incompetent, which is arguably
more depressing.
“There are legitimate security reasons for why nobody’s telling you shit,” Ed allows,
deciding not to mention that one of those reasons is that they’re in high school. “That might
change pretty soon, though. We’re working on it.”
He mentally runs through everything he said just to check if he’s said anything weaponizable,
but Mustang is a devious politician bastard isn’t a secret and it’s not his political shit that
lord volumetry would be worried about: like Mustang said, they’ve got basically nothing
here, no favors owed, no contacts, nothing to rely on but what they brought. And Hairy didn’t
actually see Mustang blow anything up.
“Just tell me. One thing,” Hairy says, jaw clenched. “Do I have telepathy with Voldemort?”
Ed shrugs. “I dunno. Try and see.”
Hairy gapes at him. “Try and see?”
“Yeah. Like if you do, you should know what he’s thinking, right? Or seeing or whatever?
Try, I dunno, tuning into his channel or whatever.”
“His channel,” Hairy repeats, now looking like he wants a go at Ed’s braid-strangling once
Smartypants is done with her turn.
“Radio Voldemort,” a twin suggests brightly. “Volunteers to twist Hazza’s knob?”
“George!” Not A Twin squawks.
“Oh sure. And I’ll twist yours right off, since you’re asking for it so much,” Miss Redhead
growls, whipping her stick out of her sweater pocket and twisting to jab it at the twin.
“Whoah, gin gin, let’s not get carried away,” the twin says, leaning out of the way with his
palms up, just as the front door to the house opens and Havoc leans out.
“Thank fuck,” Ed says. “Y’all done in there?”
“All clear,” Havoc agrees, glancing them all over and slowly raising an eyebrow at Miss
Redhead and the twins caught in a standoff. “You kids having fun out here?”
“Lots,” Hairy says through his teeth.
“Great,” Havoc says, eyeing him dubiously. “All good, boss?”
Ed gives a sarcastic salute with the radio. “Dandy.”
“We’re gonna try and get through those papers, then.” Havoc scans over the kids again.
“Who’s coming back up with me to help translate?”
“All of them,” Ed says unequivocally. “Go on. Shoo. I got work to do.”
Chapter End Notes
ed: now that i am no longer an age that ends in -teen i take great satisfaction in calling
everyone even a single week younger than me a baby
ginny and hermione: oh my god... he’s… he’s a bitch. he's a huge fucking bitch
ed: that’s lord high god bitch to you, BABIES
also ed: my nightmare child-endangering boss is meaner than your nightmare childendangering boss! nyah!
Chapter 28
Chapter Notes
to any science people: APOLOGIES IN ADVANCE. im basically mashing up wiki
pages, snorting them off the back of my bachelor’s in bullshit and then projectile
vomiting the results
None of the kids look thrilled about this, so Ed scoots back, claps and presses one hand to the
ground. The crackle of discharge gets them scrambling back doubletime, and Ed rides the
block of dirt up and stands as it reaches waist height. “Go on, git,” he orders, looking down at
them; that’s enjoyable enough that he wishes he’d made the dirtblock taller. “Classtime’s
over.”
“Didn’t you want us to cast a spell on your radio there?” one twin says brightly, having
recovered quickest from the shake of the ground.
The offer actually seems sincere, but Ed knows better than to take what seems like a freebie,
especially after a conversation that was essentially his handing them a primer on swindling.
“Maybe later. I got shit to do first,” he says, waving it off. “Go help with the papers. And you
haven’t given me your report on all the people you remember from the resurrection,” he adds,
pointing at Hairy. “I want it in Hughes’ hands by dinner today. If you want your Mal-boy
bitch hung out to dry, that is.”
Hairy’s mouth clicks shut on whatever he was gonna say and he comes over all determined,
like when Al’s feral kitten would try and get the chicken chunks out of the perforated toy ball
Al made for it. “Fine,” he says curtly, and turns on his heel to stalk past Havoc and into the
house.
Havoc gives Ed some eyebrows as the rest of the kids all share looks and follow Hairy, but
Ed waves him off too. “I’m gonna be out here. No more distractions. It’s time for some
science.”
“Science like, the whole house is gonna shake again science?” Havoc says warily.
“Nah. This is the sit and look at lots of numbers science.”
“Yikes,” Havoc decides. “Sure you don’t wanna do that inside?”
“Nah. If I accidentally open a wormhole or negate all their shit or whatever it’s prolly better
for me to be outside.”
“Ah-huh,” Havoc says carefully. “And what’s the chances of that lookin’ like?”
“Dunno. Lessay… more’n zero but lessan fifty percent.”
“I don’t love those numbers, boss.”
“And that’s why you shouldn’t gamble,” Ed tells him, pointing with his radio. “Come get me
if they teleport back in there with Al, ya?”
“Ya,” Havoc agrees, more amused than resigned, and heads after the kids. Mustang must not
have briefed him yet about how they’re up to their ears in fresh Promised Day manure again.
Ed shakes his head and hops off his new makeshift lab table.
He pulls out his notebook and sets out the equipment; his experimental setup is basically
already done thanks to his damn start-stop attempts to do exactly this throughout the day, so
he can just go to the corner of the yard where the edge of the house butts up against the next
one, right where the shimmer is, and jump right in.
Thirty minutes later he’s wondering just what the hell kind of stupid he’s hopped into. It’s
electromagnetic radiation all right - and via the broadband probe it’s coming out as a wide
goddamn chunk of waves in frequencies from around 15 to 300 THz, which classifies it as
UV, visible light and infrared. Only it’s doing none of the things that any of that shit is
supposed to be doing.
The temperature of the house wall is noticeably cooler than his hand, yet is coming out
significantly warmer in numbers when he alchemizes a pyrometer and reads infrared - but not
on the thermometer Ed haphazardly transmutes with the mercury out of his bracer. The house
is also not emitting any kid of visible light Ed can see, so he frowns, alchemizes a shitty little
spectrometer, claps a little dirt dome into existence and takes a reading in under there, the
spectrometer pressed up against the wall. No ambient light, no glow, no light whatsoever -
and yet, same fucking thing.
His immediate conclusion is that it’s bullshit. In full dark the sensor’s giving readings like it’s
detecting light, but light is light and whatever magic is it doesn’t behave like light. Which
shouldn’t be possible, because the whole reason light is “light” is because of its wave
amplitude and frequency. That is the definition of the type of energy. That’s how energy
works.
The obvious answer is faulty equipment, only all the other readings are bunk too - maybe it
was all damaged somehow when it was brought across the anomaly? But no, the
spectrometer he just made here and now, and it’s pretty much a miniature copy of the ones
Ed’s worked with a couple times in the state labs. Nothing is shorting out like Smartypants
expected it to - is Amestrisan equipment just fundamentally different from what they have
here? There’s no special shielding around what he and Al made - if there were EMP bursts
happening this stuff would short out. Maybe that only happens when magic is used directly
on it?
There’s too many variables. Ed gets up and records ambient conditions out on the sidewalk,
and the readings are markedly different there than even just in the front yard, a couple meters
from the house. He scribbles out a basic electrical array in his notebook, pulls some metal
from a bracer to create two poles, sets it up on the lab table and activates the thing. The
voltmeter gives back a near-perfect reading; Ed wrote two volts into the array and that’s what
he’s getting back. A dummy-basic light array is next; same thing. As far as he knows there’s
no array to create radio waves, but that doesn’t mean there can’t be one; he could just create
an antenna, but he’s not super clear on how to modulate radio equipment to produce a single
very specific frequency for testing, not when he can just build the exact value he wants into
an array.
After fifteen minutes of fiddling he codges together something functional by vandalizing the
electrical array and making the current chase itself around the circle and oscillate enough to
create radio waves at exactly twelve hertz. Radiometer reads it right back to him, deviation
less than 0.03. A heat array with a 300K value proves his crappy little thermometer works
just fine, and same thing for the pyrometer besides. Tentative conclusion - equipment works
fine, it’s just magic that’s causing some kind of malfunction.
Ed squints at the shimmer playing at the very edges of the building. It’s not acting like light -
just because Ed can see it doesn’t mean it’s actually on the visible spectra, though given he
can see it kind of begs the question of whether the Gate gave him extra rods and cones in his
eyes or fucked with his brain’s optic processing or what. Is there even a way to check for
that? More importantly, is any of this operating within the scope of what humans have so far
affectionately called the laws of physics? If wave x has frequency f and amplitude λ then it
behaves like waves of f and λ do, yeah? If duck, then quacks, yes? Does he need more
sensitive equipment? Is whatever magic actually is just registering as false positives on the
meters? Has he just fallen facefirst into a phenomenon that’ll destabilize a lot of physics
theorems so deeply held they’ve been elevated to laws? Are the laws of physics just different
on this side of the anomaly? Fuck, he hopes not. He doesn’t have that kind of time. If he
doesn’t finish this within two weeks Mustang’ll be pissed enough to actually follow through
on his threat and ship him to that magic high school.
The data he’s getting back is consistent. Interference or equipment malfunction or user error
tends to create variation. And technically, an array to negate magic would probably still
work. If he assigns the energy values to match the range he’s getting, i.e. waves with
approximate frequencies between 15 THz and 300, then he should get an array that will sink
all of that. In theory.
Ed rubs his forehead. Radiochemistry isn’t one of his deeper specializations, and neither is
nuclear chem in general; thank fuck he answered that angry mail from the Central U girl all
those months ago that led to - well, first it led to a flaming argument via longform letter, but
they’ve been penpalling about the atomic fission problem for long enough that Ed’s picked
up some background and read enough specifics on the chem side to know what he’s doing
here. He’s gonna have to send her chocolate or whatever when he gets back. (And probably
properly remember her name, too, though at this point if they stop addressing each other as
Officer Moron/yapdog/third-rate/BITCH he’s pretty sure she’ll think he’s had a stroke or
something.)
Time to take about a billion more readings, because if nothing else he can determine how
consistently he’s getting the same bogus results.
It’s midafternoon when his eyelids start to droop. Well, he did do a fair amount of alchemy
today, and while he’s used to working through adrenaline spikes and the jittery comedowns
after that doesn’t mean they don’t take it out of him. The frequency of these incidents seems
to have developed an inverse relationship with their severity; he’s had way less of this shit in
the past couple years but it’s like each episode wants to make up for it by hitting individually
worse.
He still feels pretty comprehensively shitty, in a bone-deep way that’s not really at all because
the research isn’t doing what he wants it to do. He unfolds his legs to stick them out straight
and takes a minute to press his forehead to his knees, exhaling into the stretch with his hands
loose on the ankle clasps of his boots. He really wishes Al were here.
Fuck, he’s getting old.
The solution to sleepiness is to get up and do some jumping jacks, maybe a full set of
pushups since it’s not like he exercised this morning, but his entire body quails pathetically at
the thought of even dragging himself to his feet. That makes him kind of want to slap
himself, but even his traitorous arms - Ol’ Faithful and Prodigal Right - turn out to have
submitted leave forms and skedaddled when he wasn’t looking. His braid loses whatever
purchase it had on his shirt and slithers down over his shoulder as if trying to join the rest of
him in sagging into the ground.
Maybe he can just nap out here for a bit.
Ed considers that, snorts, and pushes into the full stretch since he’s down here anyway. It
relieves the background ache of his automail port enough that he ends up doing the full
mobility set of leg PT, and that wakes him up enough to gather all the equipment into the
pack again and dissolve his makeshift lab table back into the ground. He shoulders the pack
and turns back to the wall of the house, considering, then plants his foot on a windowsill and
hops up.
One story up he swears, jumps down, claps to make the stone of the front stoop spell out I’m
on the roof like a reverse welcome mat - if Havoc or whoever comes back out to look for him
and finds him disappeared it’s gonna be a whole damn carnival - then starts his climb again.
It’s an easy go: by the time he reaches the roof he could swear the casing on the outside of the
windows has gotten wider and deeper to give him better footholds, which is actually possible
given this place might have a brain, fucking hell.
He hoists himself onto the roof feeling vaguely both intrusive and intruded upon, enough that
he mutters a doubtful “Thanks, I guess,” at the house.
Then he adds, “If you fuckin’ try some of that bog art, mindreading, show-you-nightmares
shit again, I will peel you like a softboiled egg. Then I’ll give what’s left to Mustang. In a
matchbox. Get me?”
There’s no kind of response, which is pretty much the best answer he could hope for. He sets
the pack down and looks around for a suitable spot; there’s still some bird crap up here, so he
grimaces, claps and retiles the roof, molding the slate blocks into each other and wedging the
whole thing tight to the roof beams and layer of paper tar. It’s warm up here from the
reflected heat, which is good considering Ed left his jacket inside; he tugs the pack over to
one of the chimneys, sits down and sets about researching its pillowesque properties.
Intermission
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“What an utter prat,” Ron says.
They’re all crowded into the upstairs hall toilet. Hermione had tugged Ginny’s sweater, so
Ginny cheerily announced “Bathroom break! Elric said none of us can go anywhere alone!”
to Chaos and promptly dragged Harry and Ron in after her. Fred and George followed
amiably enough behind, and now they’re all stuffed in here around the toilet and cracked
clawfoot tub and sink. “Don’t be jealous,” Ginny tells Ron, because honestly, she’s had about
enough of his steaming and pouting. “Elric’s an arse but he’s no worse than any of you get.”
Ron colors impressively and sputters. “Oh, right, a bloke’s just fine when you want to - to
snog him!”
Ginny tosses her hair and affects her haughtiest, most annoying tones. “ So? When a man,
with a certain physique, in leather trousers, not to mention knee-high boots, destroys a
dementor for a lady - ”
“He didn’t destroy it for you!”
“Never mind that. We need to talk to Mundungus,” Hermione says in that scary final-examsare-in-a-week-and-I’ve-still-got-half-a-textbook-to-memorize voice that probably won her
the prefectship. “Why did he leave right then, right before the dementors appeared? Who
assigned him to guard duty that day? Was it Dumbledore?”
“Heard Dung say something about a cauldron deal,” Fred volunteers. “Said he was just gonna
pop away for a second, and it’d been dead quiet the whole time and he didn’t think he’d be
missed.”
“You’re not seriously thinking Dumbledore made that happen,” Ron says incredulously. “Not
on purpose, not as - as a setup. Not Dumbledore.”
Hermione’s mouth is a flat line. “Elric was right that it’s too much of a coincidence. If
nothing else we have to find out what did happen - what if somebody knew Mundungus was
watching Harry that day, and paid somebody to call him away at just the right moment? It
doesn’t have to have been - anyone in the Order. This could just be somebody watching them.
Seeing who they talk to. Watching us.”
That’s sobering. It settles across all of them like Elric’s harsh voice had, describing Harry’s
situation in terms so cutting and frank that Ginny hadn’t been able to help a shiver down her
spine. He’d made having parents sound so - transactional.
And he’d had a point. Harry doesn’t have anybody to talk for him to Dumbledore - Sirius
might try, but Elric had been right there, too: Sirius can’t do anything when he’s got Aurors
sniffing every corner of Britain for him and if he weren’t stuck in this house he’d have
already tried to take Harry from his horrible relatives. Harry still looks disturbed by what
Elric said, though to be honest he’s looked some kind of disturbed pretty much every moment
since he set foot in Grimmauld Place.
Hermione lasers in on Fred and George. “How do we get ahold of Mundungus?”
“He should be at the next Order meeting,” George says. “We can corner him after.”
“Should we ask Elric to get some answers out of him?” Ginny says. “Dung might not even
answer if we ask, you saw how he is. And we’d get in trouble for hexing him in place or
something, but Elric - well, he just told us all about how he can get away with anything,
didn’t he?” She smiles winningly. “Let’s test it.”
George points a finger at her. “Evil,” he says approvingly.
“Think he’ll do it?” Fred says.
Ginny shrugs. “Bet he’d want to know what happened to make Dung run out and who it was
he went to meet. If we set up the opportunity I bet he wouldn’t say no.”
“And if we set it up for him, he might see it as a favor,” George says, rubbing his chin
plottingly.
“What’s stopping him from talking to Dung himself?” Ron says crossly. “Bet they won’t be
keeping Elric out of any Order meetings. If he’s so interested in the answer why wouldn’t he
just ask him direct in front of everybody? He doesn’t need to sneak around.”
“So we catch Dung before the next meeting,” Ginny says. “Bring him to Elric before anyone
else can.”
“We can’t leave the house,” Hermione says with deep dissatisfaction. “No, we’ll have to wait
for the Order meeting. We’ll hex him if we have to - we can make it look like an accident.
And having the answer from him can be leverage, too - this is information we can trade for
what Elric knows.” Her eyes gleam with something like anticipation. “If nobody’s going to
tell us anything, we’ll just have to get the answers ourselves.”
“Why, Prefect Granger,” George says with a hand raised to his mouth and a mock gasp.
“Where did this new rebellious streak come from?”
“This isn’t school, George,” Hermione says, colder than Ginny’s ever heard her. “Voldemort
is back. Elric did save our lives yesterday. If none of us could have gotten a Patronus off we
would’ve died. We have to know what’s going on.”
“Dunno what you mean about new, either,” Ron mutters. “She set Snape on fire our first
year.”
Harry and Ginny snort in tandem, which she secretly finds very cute, and Hermione shoots
Ron a half-surprised half-smile, cheeks darkening slightly and looking much more like the
usual Hermione, merely bossy instead of icy cold. “Needs must,” she says crisply, sticking
her nose up. “Besides, he deserved it.”
“Hah!” Harry says.
“So we’re agreed,” Hermione says. “Fred, George, you keep an eye out for Dung. I’ll see if I
can figure out a jinx to keep him still and not apparating before we’re done with him. And we
probably should help the Unplottables with their translations, if only to cover what we’re
really doing.”
“If we don’t want to be stuck cleaning, yeah,” Fred says.
“I need to write up… what he asked for,” Harry says, kind of quietly. “The list of names. For
Elric.”
The Death Eaters that Harry had seen, that night You-Know-Who rose again. Ginny can’t
think about that too much; it’s too big, too terrifying, in that awful formless way of childhood
nightmare. “One of us should probably try and get a look at what Elric’s doing out there,” she
says instead, the idea taking shape. “Not Harry, since Chaos is technically following him, but
the rest of us can take coordinated toilet breaks or something. He wanted us to cast a spell on
his radio, right? Maybe we can figure out what else he might want.”
“You just want to ogle him some more,” Ron mutters.
Ginny rounds on him, hands on her hips. “And?”
“And you can’t keep acting like that! You’re acting like - what even is it about him? You’d
think he was some kind of man-Veela or something!”
“Got the hair for it,” George remarks.
“Not the legs, though,” Fred counterpoints.
“Bit short, ain’t he?”
“Little on the petite side, yeah.”
“You can’t call that petite,” Ginny dismisses. “He’s two of you in the shoulders. Besides, he’s
the same height as Harry.”
They all look at Harry consideringly - or; in Ron’s case, in appalled bewilderment - just as
there’s a knock on the door. “You kids okay in there?” Chaos says, muffled.
“Fine!” Ginny yells back. “Ron just needs some moral support with his, you know -”
“- personal situation,” George completes. “Very personal -”
“- very moral,” Fred adds.
“I hate you all so much,” Ron swears.
“See?” Ginny calls through the door. “He’s having a very tough time. We’ll be out in a
moment!” She cups her hands around her mouth. “Just push, Ron! Push!”
Chapter End Notes
Ron, protected by heterosexuality: why the fuck does everyone think this horrible blond
gremlin with a nicki minaj laugh is some kind of hotshot casanova
twins: chaos factor
hermione: foreign jock
ginny: angsty protagonist vibe
harry, very quietly: draco in leather pants
Chapter 30
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
He dreams he’s in a warehouse of multicolored underpants, stacks upon stacks looming over
him threatening to fall, and he’s clapping to at least alchemize the dyes black when it all goes
white and he’s yanked into frothing, clutching darkness and then agonizingly white light. He
reels, weightless, looking for the Gate but it’s not there - hello, mister alchemist, a massive
pair of underwear says in a thousand voices, and Ed’s about to let loose a very confused
scream when a crack has him slamming bolt upright. He’s on his feet and blinking madly a
solid four seconds before reality reasserts itself: outside, wizard loony land, house, roof,
teleporting. Right. He should probably go see who it is.
He goes over to the lip of the roof and sees three familiar figures walking down the street
towards the house, late afternoon sunlight shining off two distinctive blonde heads and one
vivid Amestrisan uniform in the lead. “Al!” Ed exclaims, and barely has the presence of
mind to remember he doesn’t have a metal arm anymore and can’t just jump down the side of
the house and dig his fingers into the wall as a brakeline.
He swings down windowsill by windowsill instead, jumping and rolling impatiently on the
last story, and bolts across the yard. “Al!” he calls, vaulting the low garden fence to get onto
the sidewalk quicker, and across the street Al startles and then grins at him. He’s in a Xingtype traveling jacket over a sweatervest and work pants with about a million pockets on them,
and that plus the boots means Hawkeye told him all about the elbow-deep shit they’ve landed
in: somehow in the past couple of years Al contracted whatever unfortunate disease causes
people to enjoy wearing wingtips and ties, and he doesn’t usually forgo unless he expects to
be in a fight. Hawkeye’s also carrying his pack, which doesn’t bode well for Al having a
good energy day, but he doesn’t look ashy and at least his stride is fine.
When Ed gets within a meter of him Al neatly spins his cane up and plants the end against
Ed’s chest, stopping him short in a fairly bruisey kind of way. “Prove you’re Ed,” Al says,
still smiling.
Well that’s…. reasonable, if Hawkeye briefed him on how they’re dealing with potential
homunculi again. “When you got drunk in Baozhe that one time you talked for an hour about
Mei’s -”
“Okay you’re Ed,” Al says hastily, flipping the cane and using the handle end to hook Ed
into a hug. “Sorry, you just came running at us out of nowhere -”
“No it’s fine, it’s smart, you wouldn’t believe the fuckshow going on here - thank fuck you’re
here, finally, we can get some real problem solving going -”
Al laughs. “Okay, keeping in mind that I’ve been working on nothing but medical arrays for
the past ten months -”
“But half of that’s isolators and stabilizers anyway, right? We need that first, probably, ‘cause
shit, the readings I’ve been getting -”
“What are you even doing? Colonel Hawkeye told me some, but -”
“Turning off thhhhe...,” Ed trails off, remembering Mustache is right there. He pulls back a
bit, leaving Al’s arm around his shoulder. “There’s a kid with this like… chunk of soul stuck
onto him. Maybe. He’s like haunted or something. We gotta get rid of it.”
Al’s eyebrows creep together. “A chunk of soul?” he asks, the flick of his glance telling Ed
he hasn’t missed his clumsy dodge or why he did it. “Sure, I can take a look at that.”
“Great,” Ed says, steering Al to turn towards the house. “We’re all in there, it’s a dump kinda
but don’t worry, I fixed it up -” except for the mold, shit, and he was gonna do something
about the bathrooms too, install showers, fuck, maybe Al can sit outside for a bit while he
takes care of that.
Al is frowning strangely at the house, though, in a more than yikes-this-place-sucks way, and
he slows and stops a good twenty meters from the gate, arm slipping from Ed’s shoulders.
“What is that?”
Ed glances at the house, then smacks himself in the forehead. “Fuck, that’s right.” He’d only
seen a weird shimmering blob when he’d first arrived, after all. Their magic masscompressing security measures or whatever. “Hawkeye, how’re we getting him in?”
Hawkeye’s watching them with tolerant amusement. “I believe entry to the house requires
direct transfer of information,” she says, nodding at Mustache.
“I’ll go see if Albus is available,” he says, also watching them and looking kind of bemused
about it. “There may be a bit of a wait - there’s a cafe around the corner if you’d prefer to sit
indoors.”
“Uh, yeah, sure, thanks,” Ed says. Mustache nods cordially, and with a last vaguely curious
look at Al he glances both ways down the street and then teleports out with a crack.
Al, still staring at the house, says, “That’s qi.”
Ed whirls. “Holy fuck, are you sure?”
“Uh-huh,” Al says, not looking away from it. “That is… a lot of qi, really concentrated… and
it’s doing a lot of fluctuating I’ve never seen before -”
“Oh my god the emissions,” Ed breathes. “They read as light-spectrum, it’s UV all the way
into infrared - it’s solar radiation somehow, I knew it -”
Al’s eyes widen and he spins to look at Ed. “And now we can prove it -”
“- because here it’s concentrated enough to measure! YES! We are getting a paper!”
Al meets his double high five with equal force, laughing as Ed whoops and jumps. They
knock elbows together as he lands, right to left, and fuck, Ed’s never gonna get over how he
can do that again without getting a spiked gauntlet bruise to the bone. “Now we just gotta
prove it,” he says, bending down to scoop up Al’s cane, dropped for their high five. “Which
is gonna be crap, because all the data I’m getting is beyond fucky.”
“Congratulations,” Hawkeye says, somehow dry and sincere at the same time. “Anything in
particular you’d like me to report to the General at this time?”
“Sure; tell him shit’s fucked but we’re working on it,” Ed says. “And that looks like magic is
qi, if he cares about the technicals.”
“I’ll let him know,” Hawkeye says, now entirely dry. “Will you go to the cafe, or…?”
“Nah, we can chill out here, it’s cool,” Ed tells her. “Oh - hey, don’t freak if Mustang like,
hugs you or some shit, okay? He’ll explain all about it.”
Hawkeye slowly turns to give him her full attention. “Will he now.”
“Yeah, it’s tactical and all that,” Ed says, then figures he might as well read Al in now too:
sooner the better for shit like this. “Apparently they got ‘household pests’ here that hang
around corners waiting to read your mind and use what it finds in there to shapeshift into a
tailor-made nightmare scenario, special just for you.”
Hawkeye’s face gets significantly stonier. “Read your mind?”
Ed grins unpleasantly. “Oh yeah. The wizards might be able to do that too, I don’t know yet.
None of them seemed even a little bit surprised about it. They thought torching it was
overkill.”
Hawkeye’s mouth tenses just a fraction. “I take it the General reacted aggressively.”
“You fuckin’ bet,” Ed says. “He didn’t go totally pantaloonies, though, don’t worry. He
toasted the thing and then we cleared the house. There’s a chimera in there too, by the way,
size of a horse, and it’s got wings and claws and can use ‘em - it’s the convict guy’s pet. Oh,
and the house is sentient. Kinda.”
Hawkeye looks at him the way she usually looks when he shows up in her office saying
something like sooooo you know that one fancy historic aquaduct in Versahn? welllllll the
good news is it’s been upgraded, or, so apparently you can get arrested for accidentally
blowing up some guy’s moonshine still even if you fix it up after: like she’s going to make it
Mustang’s problem. “I see. I will refrain from making any remarks along the lines of ‘it could
be worse’.”
“Yeah, don’t curse us like that,” Ed agrees. “We’ll come and join you once Beardy shows up
and tells Al the magic word or whatever.”
Hawkeye inclines her head and hefts Al’s pack slightly. “Would you like me to take this to
our rooms, Alphonse?”
“Oh - yes please, thank you, Colonel,” Al says, breaking off from staring at the house. “I
appreciate it.”
“Of course. I’ll see you inside.”
“That is… so weird,” Al says, staring after her as she walks through the yard gate and up to
the house. “She just… disappears. How did they make qi do that?”
“Guess we’ll find out,” Ed says. “It just looks like a regular house to me now, but until I got
the magic words it was this huge big like… heat shimmer.”
“I’m getting that too,” Al says. “Visually, I mean. In qi-sense it’s… well, it’s not that.
Everything’s very… tangled? I don’t even know if that’s the right word.”
“Shit, I can see qi,” Ed reflects. “We can see qi. Oh - Mustang can’t, by the way. There’s also
this like, tingle feeling - did you feel that when the mustache guy teleported?”
Al frowns. “I’m not sure,” he says. “Though I do think I felt something when I touched the…
port key. Walking through the anomaly was very distracting.”
“Ya, fuck that thing,” Ed agrees. “I can feel the tingle feeling on pretty much everything
that’s got the shimmer. That I’ve touched so far, anyway. And bastard can feel it too, but can’t
see it. Nobody else can see or feel anything either, so I’m assuming it’s an alchemist thing -
well, a Gate thing. And we can see and feel both prolly ‘cause -”
“ - we’ve been through the Gate enough times that we should have our own cat flap,” Al
agrees. “Hm. So you’re testing what magic is? Energy-wise?”
“Ya. We gotta…” Ed looks around, then tugs Al over to sit on the curb of the sidewalk a little
ways down from the house. “We need to figure out an array to shut magic off,” Ed says,
lowering his voice some just in case. “Like what happened with our alchemy. We’re keeping
it under wraps because we’re pretty sure there’s some shady shit going on. You’re here as a
doctor, officially - though we actually really do need to take a look at that kid’s qi or
whatever, because whatever’s going on with him might be broadcasting everything he sees
and hears directly to the top terrorist.”
“That’s not good,” Al says thoughtfully.
“Ya. And the government is compromised out the ass - did Hawkeye tell you they sent these
like… fear demon thingies after me? After the kid, I mean. Only they got me instead.”
“Unfortunate,” Al agrees.
“As fuck. For reference, use thermite. Like… a lot. And get mad, that helped fight the,
y’know, artificially induced panic attack. Did Hawkeye tell you about these things already?
Like what they do?”
“Eat souls?” Al offers.
“Yeah, apparently, so, y’know, don’t get close. Anyway. They don’t know if the terrorists sent
those things after the kid or if the government did, but either way the government’s covering
for it, so now the kid’s officially missing and I’m technically… well, technically I don’t
exist? They don’t know it was me that killed the dementer things, they think it was the kid.
But if the cops knew I was there I’d get real fuckin’ arrested. And tried for treason. And
probably executed.”
“Oh, are we enemies of the state again?” Al says. “Exciting.”
“Yeah, it’s been nonstop reruns of our childhood greatest hits around here. Monsters,
genocide, raising the dead - I’m waiting for someone’s dad to pop out of the woodwork and
explain away his ditching as all part of his secret antiterrorist crusade.”
Al gives Ed the look he always gives when Ed starts talking about Hohenheim, which is
disturbingly similar to the look Mom used to give them when they fucked up the kitchen
trying to alchemize cake or propped boards against the side of the house to sled off the roof:
like she’s disappointed but understands that they’re congenital lunatics and can’t help it. Ed
gives Al his own look right back, because he understands Al’s got rainbows and tweety birds
and an endless well of forgiveness in his heart, but what Ed’s got is mostly cyanide and spite.
Al sighs. “So we’re keeping our array work under wraps?”
“Yeah, like - if anybody asks, it’s to fix the kid’s soul problem, not cancel magic. Oh - here,
have a translation rock.” Ed digs out his own and drops it into Al’s jacket pocket; he’ll get
another one from Mustang later. “They’ve got a couple meter radius and they’ll translate to
their Inglish or whatever even if you speak Xingese, so, y’know. Assume someone’s always
listening. They don’t really translate names, though, and we’ve had some dumb glitches
already. The kid with the soul problems? Get this - his name’s Hairy Potter.”
“What, really?”
“Ya. At least his parents died before they could be held accountable for that one.”
“That’s mean, brother,” Al says, not sounding very much like he cares about it. “He’s an
orphan?”
“Yep. Which puts him up the shitpipe, because the head of this vigilante op is ready to kill
him off to get rid of the chunk of terrorist stuck in him. Which is also why we're trying to get
rid of it.”
Al frowns, parsing through that, slowly rolling his cane where it’s laid across his knees. “Do
you think it’ll come down to human transmutation?” he says after a moment, quiet but matter
of fact. “From what you’ve seen so far.”
“Honestly, no clue,” Ed says. “But there’s no rune or anything, and I’m gonna go ahead and
say whatever’s binding the other soul to him - if it’s a soul - then it’s bound with magic, not
alchemy. And if it’s magic -”
“- then a magic-cancelling array should decouple the souls,” Al finishes, eyes widening
slightly and then narrowing in satisfaction. “And nobody has to lose any limbs. Or organs.”
“Yep. It’s - ah shit,” Ed swears, his own satisfaction cutting off as he realizes. “If it’s qi the
alchemic negation array won’t work, fuck.”
He smacks his fist on his thigh in frustration - and then a second, worse realization blossoms.
Ed chews his lip and stares down at the road surface between his boots. He doesn’t look at
Al. “The other one will, though. I bet. If we modify it.”
“You mean the -”
“Yeah.”
When Ed risks a glance up Al meets his eyes. They look at each other. The prospect of using
a philosopher’s stone array, designed to drain and bind the life energy of human souls, even a
modified one, is not exactly a super happy one. Feels pretty fuckin’ gross, actually. And
they’re probably going to have to do it. Their options aren’t many, when it comes to the
magic. They might not have a choice.
“Well,” Al says. “I guess that means we already have a base design.”
“Yeah,” Ed says, something uncomfortably like relief easing in his lungs, then feels moved to
add, “We’re not using it for anything bad.”
“Yeah…”
“We’ll rebuild the array from scratch. We adjust for qi, magic-whatever frequency only, and
isolate the rest.”
“Yeah.”
“And if it really is qi and really does come from solar radiation, then it’s a constant energy
source. The magic should self-replenish. Once the array shuts off I bet there’ll be no
permanent effects, same as what happened with our alchemy.”
“We’d have to test it. Extensively. We still don’t know why the qi concentrates like that...”
“We’ll find out,” Ed says decisively.
“Yeah.”
They sit quiet for a moment, back to looking at their knees. “Do anything fun with Mei while
I was gone?” Ed ventures after a bit.
“You were only gone two days,” Al says, Hawkeye-dry.
“And? I’ve had loads of fun these past two days.”
“Really?”
“Yeah, it’s been shit. What’d you and Mei do?”
“Same stuff we all did, mostly. Picnicked on the beach yesterday.”
“That’s fun,” Ed says. He hates sand in his automail and while he likes the waves he can’t go
in deeper than his waist because of his leg; it’s good they waited until he was gone and
wouldn’t ruin it for them with his crankiness. “Did she want to come with you? Here?”
“She went to talk to Ling,” Al says. “Pretty much as soon as Hawkeye passed on her
message. The General wrote quite the letter.”
Ed snorts. “What’d he say?”
“That he was so overwhelmingly confident in his team’s ability to handle this possiblehomunculus, definite-philosopher’s-stone-armed, self-resurrecting genocidal wizard that
there was absolutely no need for Mei or Emperor Yao to worry. Or, say, post troops near the
boundary crossing, at strengths of sixty to a hundred men at minimum, and be aware that
undetectable possession is one of the weapons in the enemy’s arsenal. Things like that.”
“Ha! So you’re all up to speed, then?”
“Well, this is the first I’m hearing of a sentient house,” Al says.
Ed groans. “Bastard thinks it’s some kinda, I dunno, magic security system programmed to
have a personality. It’s creepy as hell.”
Al eyes him for a long second. “What did you do?”
“What! Why do you think I did anything?” Ed yelps.
“Dunno. You’re looking kind of guilty around the edges.”
“I am not! What does that even mean? And I just woke it up, or whatever - I didn’t do
anything to it!”
“Ah-huh,” Al says skeptically. “Woke it up how, exactly?”
“I was fixing things! That house was a total craphole, there was rot in the support beams and
the foundation was like a hundred years old, and there’s still mold everywhere because
bastard stopped me from finishing the job -”
“And why’d he do that?”
Ed huffs. “Because the transmutation accidentally set loose that pet chimera I told Hawkeye
about, and it tried to chew on one of Hughes’ people.”
“You transmuted with people in the building,” Al concludes with another sigh. “Brother, I’ve
told you, people don’t like it when you do that.”
“People are pansies. It was fine! Only now the damn house is smacking doors open for me
and using us to get rid of its fuckin’ ‘ pests’ , and that means it’s watching us, and that is
creepy as shit.” Ed scowls. “And I haven’t even installed showers or dealt with the mold yet.
You shouldn’t go in there until I do.”
Al rolls his eyes skyward. “I’m not going to keel over and die like a hothouse orchid if I’m
exposed to the slightest suboptimal conditions, brother.”
“Yeah, but what if you do?”
Al narrows his eyes at him. Then he narrows them even further. “What happened?”
“Nothing happened!”
“I know you’re not dumb enough to think you can bullshit me -”
“I’m not bullshitting!”
“- which begs the question of why you keep trying, especially when you know I can beat it
out of you -”
“No you can’t!”
“- and while I am perfectly willing to chalk up many things to the mad little hamster that does
all that foaming and scratching inside your brain -”
“HAMSTER?”
“- I really don’t appreciate it when you treat me like an invalid. Which you don’t do unless
something happens. So. What happened?”
Al punctuates this by pointedly changing his grip on his cane, which is ninety-seven
centimeters of galvanized steel and has been alchemized into a sword way the fuck more than
once. Teacher originally gave it to Al when he was still having trouble walking for very long,
and he does rely on it occasionally still, but Ed is under no illusions that these days its
primary role in Al’s health is to be the hit nobody ever sees coming.
Not that he fucking needs it, because the little squirt is fucking psychic when he wants to be
and uses that to hit his helpless victims like a fuckin’ freight truck and get away scot free
without ever leaving a mark . “‘Pests that show you nightmares’,” Al quotes, case in fuckin’
point, not even waiting a full breath for Ed to defend himself before slicing in. And then his
face goes from hunting wolverine to terrible empathy, which is garbage and routinely makes
Ed want to alchemize himself into a hole deep enough to reach the core of the earth, so it’s a
good thing it only lasts a second before it melts into familiar exasperation.
“Idiot,” Al tells him, jostling their knees together. “You think I don’t get it? Honestly, you
can be so dumb.”
“Hey!”
“I’m here and I’m fine. I’m going to stay fine, because most mold isn’t inherently harmful
unless an individual has a genetic sensitivity or is subjected to long-term exposure, and my
lungs are perfectly healthy. Besides, you’re the one who always gets infections anyway, not
me.”
“Hey!”
“Just accept that my immune system is better than yours,” Al tells him mercilessly. “And stop
freaking out.”
“I’m not freaking out! I’m fine,” Ed stresses, offended to the very core of his soul. His
immune system is badass. “Really. The mold’s gotta be taken care of anyway, you know
that.”
“So we’ll do it together. Properly. What were you even going to do about it? You’re no good
at detail work - were you just going to seal it up inside everything else? Oh my god you
were.”
“I was going to do it properly!”
“Just for that Teacher would make you scrub it all out by hand.”
“Ugh. I wouldn’t even be able to reach it all. That shit’s clear in through the walls.”
“We’ll take a look when we go in.” The last of the afternoon sun slips below the horizon in
that abrupt way Ed’s more used to experiencing in mountain country, though with the city all
around them he supposes the shadow of the buildings brings on evening in a similar way. The
two of them glance around and shiver in tandem; it really does get clammy quick around here
when the sun isn’t right on you.
“Maybe we should go wait in that cafe,” Ed says. “I got no idea when whatshisface is gonna
show up to let us in. Hey, maybe we can alchemize some of the local money! I saw some
yesterday but didn’t get to hold it, so -”
“We are not stealing anybody’s money,” Al says severely.
“We wouldn’t steal it! It’d be borrowing! We’d give it right back!”
“Oh, you’re going to ask them first, are you? ‘Hello, I’m a foreigner here, can I please hold
some of your money?’ Don’t worry, there’s nothing even slightly suspicious about this, I’m
definitely not about to run away with it -”
“Well how do you want to do it, genius? The wizards use totally different money than the,
whatever, non magic people, and telling them hey, I just need to hold your money for a
second isn’t gonna be any less suspicious either -”
“Just knock over the tip jar,” Al says exasperatedly. “In the cafe. Then you help pick it all up,
and take all the time you need to read the composition because you’re so very clumsy, all
while apologizing, very sincerely.”
Ed stares at Al. “That’s genius,” he says. “If they have a tip jar, that is. They don’t tip in
Xing.”
“Yeah, ‘cause that’s called a bribe in Xing,” Al says, pushing himself to his feet and holding
out his hand. “Come on, let’s go find out.”
“Ya, okay. Hang on, gotta leave a message for when they come looking for us - shit, the
wizards don’t read Amestrisan.” Ed pulls himself to his feet and lets go of Al’s hand,
glancing around for something to use. “Maybe a signpost? Like, if we draw a little coffee cup
and an arrow, do you think they’ll get it?”
There’s a crack behind Ed, and Al’s eyes flick over his shoulder. “Ah,” he says. “I don’t think
that’ll be necessary.”
Chapter End Notes
everyone thinks that ed and al are Like That bc they grew up without parental influence
but i like to think that absolutely nothing would’ve changed if trisha lived
ed & al: mom! we discovered like, SO much corruption and this evil government plot to
kill us all! Also there’s undead monsters! We’re gonna go fight god! who is also dad’s
weird clone twin so our uncle! Your brother in law technically!
trisha: gosh! I’ll have to ask him why THAT didn’t come up in the prenup… oh right,
we never actually got married. Haha silly me! Anyway have fun! Make sure you eat a
healthy lunch and look both ways before you cross the street! Fuck it up kiddos!
Chapter 31
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s Lemons, Mustache and Beardy, all standing there looking at them with their sticks in their
hands. “Edward,” Beardy says, not quite surprised. “This is -” his eyes flick over Al, then Ed.
“- your brother?”
“Yeah,” Ed says. “Dr. Elric, here to deal with all your weird soul problems. You letting him in
or what?”
“Well in that case let me just say we’re very glad to have him,” Beardy says genteelly. “The
order of the phoenix’s headquarters can be found at number twelve Grimmauld place.”
Al twitches strongly as, presumably, he sees the house do its roiling burst-outta-nowhere
thing. Ed sees absolutely no change, which is decent evidence to the protective magic
whatevers being some kind of perceptual filter keyed into a single person saying a specific
passphrase; that’d be way easier and cheaper to do, energywise, than actually compressing
the matter and mass of the building and folding it in between the others. “Right this way,”
Beardy says, gesturing for them to head up the walkway like he didn’t just watch Al almost
jump out of his skin.
Al just nods back all gracious and shit and goes, expression nothing but blank politeness,
because if the wizards want to play the stone-cold no surprises game then by fuck Ed’s little
brother is gonna win. Ed follows his lead, resisting the urge to stick his tongue out at Beardy
and the other two over his shoulder.
They slow as they reach the stoop. Al glances down at it, then at Ed. “What were you doing
on the roof?”
“Stuff,” Ed says, because he’s not gonna say napping like a hundred year old man in front of
the wizards. “Oh, hey, that reminds me - gimme a sec.”
Scaling the front of the house is even easier than it was before - the window casings are
definitely more pronounced now - and it takes less than a minute to jog over to the chimney,
grab the pack and get back down again. The wizards are all staring way too intently at him
again, but Al’s transmuted the stoop clean of Ed’s message and is dusting his hands off.
“Ah,” he says in understanding at the pack over Ed’s shoulder. “Science.”
“Ya. C’mon, let’s get you set up - shit, the mold.”
Al closes an iron grip around Ed’s bicep and lifts the pack off him, squeezing hard when Ed
tries to hang onto it. “It’s fine,” Al says, smiling in that way that means he kind of wants to
suplex the stupid out of Ed and would probably try if they weren’t in company. “I’m sure it
isn’t that bad.”
“But you -”
“Can handle it. We just had this conversation. Go inside.”
“After you,” Beardy says, back to his weird cheerful voice, but Al propels Ed forward with
his grip before he can do more than curl his lip over his shoulder at the wizards.
Psycho’s in the hallway walking towards the door, though he stops when he sees them
coming in. “Whoa,” he says, squinting between Ed and Al. “Bloody hell. You twins too?”
Al laughs. “We haven’t gotten that one in a while,” he says, in a tone that makes Ed
accidentally kick his ankle. “Because I’m so much taller now,” Al continues blithely, neatly
stepping out of the way of Ed’s second much more targeted kick, “and my brother’s so much
uglier.”
“I brought you into this world, I can take you out,” Ed threatens.
“You really couldn’t,” Al says unconcernedly. “I’m indestructible. Hello, I’m Alphonse - you
are?”
“Serious,” Psycho says, grinning at Al. “You, I like. Hey moonie, dumbell door,” he adds to
the wizards. “Snape.”
“Serious,” Beardy says serenely. “Is Molly in?”
“Yeah, in the kitchen. She’s refamiliarizing since he moved everything around.” Psycho says,
gesturing at Ed.
“Ah,” Beardy says. “I was wondering why the hall seems to have undergone some changes.”
Al turns a Look on Ed. “What have we told you about inflicting your taste on other people?”
“Aha! See, this time, not me, not even a little bit!” Ed brandishes a finger at the walls, then
pokes up at the skylight in the roof of the light well that now makes up half of the front hall.
“I changed absolutely no colors and all the creepass shit - the wallpaper, those freaky hooks,
that fuckin’, leg thing, whatever that is - that was all there when I got here.”
Al gives him the skeptical eyebrows. “You expect me to believe black wallpaper isn’t you?”
“Oh, fuck you very much, I added nine windows and brought up the ceiling clearance by like
six centimeters.” He’d actually been thinking of the fancy West Hub passenger train station in
Central, the older one with the high vaulted ceiling and vast arched windows with huge
repeating panes of glass; he couldn’t recreate the scale here, obviously, but it was a similarly
grimy building that nonetheless managed to feel airy and full of light so he figured he should
at least try for the same effect. “So any time you see daylight in this dump you should be
going oh my god, thank you, dearest big brother, angel of construction, miracle of
architectural design -”
The highly necessary recitation of Ed’s due is interrupted by Mustang and Hughes appearing
at the top of the stairs, Hughes immediately bouncing down like an overexcited racedog that
somehow got itself into full officer uniform. “Al!” he exclaims, zipping over and hugging Al
one-armed like they didn’t see each other in Xing yesterday. “Welcome back to the circus!”
“Hello, Colonel,” Al laughs, hugging back. “I’d say I’m glad to be back, but circumstances
being what they are, I just hope I’ll be able to help. Hello, General.”
“Alphonse,” Mustang says warmly, following Hughes down at a less manic pace, then turns a
significantly faker smile on the wizards. “Gentlemen. Am I to assume we are once again
waiting on Madam Bones?”
“She and Alastor will be here shortly,” Beardy says. “I see you saw fit to make certain
adjustments to the house.”
“There was enough wood rot in this place that I was amazed I didn’t find termites,” Ed says
flatly. “It wasn’t adjustments, it was a safety rescue mission.”
“Hawkeye wanted to see you upstairs, Fullmetal,” Mustang says, smiling at Beardy like a
piranha that’s just spotted a bare leg. “Why don’t you get Alphonse settled in. We’ve made
some progress with mapping incidents, Albus - would you have a moment to discuss methods
of operation with us?”
That’s a get the hell out if Ed’s ever heard one, so he says “Uh huh, going,” and manages to
snatch the equipment pack from Al and scamper out of reach up the stairs.
Al catches up at the top, though Ed’s ready this time and dodges the cane swipe that goes for
his ankles. “Don’t call me doctor when I haven’t earned it,” Al hisses as they jostle down the
hall and up the second flight of stairs, Ed doing his best to keep the pack over his own
shoulder. “You know that cheapens it!”
“What? You practically are a doctor,” Ed grunts, absorbing the elbow jab to his side and
launching himself up the last three stairs in one go to get away from the follow-strike. “You
were with that traveling clinic for a whole year -”
“And I’ve got four more years of study, so quit making me look like a fraud just ‘cause you
don’t know what titles even mean, Lieutenant Colonel -”
“How is it making you a fraud! Besides, these wizards don’t even have doctors -”
“Edward,” Hawkeye says.
Ed and Al reflexively scramble to attention, Ed wincing as he accidentally smacks himself on
the ear trying to salute with the arm that’s still got the pack hanging off it. Hawkeye’s
standing in one of the bedroom doorways, giving them a glacially patient look as they realize
they are not in fact about to die and consequently slouch back out of form. “You can set up in
here,” she tells them, gesturing through the doorway.
It turns out everybody else got rooms too, same as Ed did the first night, though apparently
Hawkeye bunked downstairs with Ed when he’d passed out on his transmuted couch. “Fuck,
sorry,” he tells her. “You shoulda woken me up for my watch.”
“The General warded the room alchemically,” Hawkeye says. “You would have woken if
there had been any problem.”
“Still,” Ed mutters. “Sorry. It’s not fair to you.”
“You wouldn’t have woken me if I’d come from combat,” Hawkeye says calmly. “There was
no need for you to take watch.”
“Combat? Wha - oh.” Right, the dementer things. That wasn’t so much combat so much as
some kind of… episode, in Ed’s mind, though he’s gotta admit it qualifies. There was an
attack; he defended, then counterattacked.
“We’ll be in the map room, though I believe the General is not in a hurry to see you,”
Hawkeye says, which is the nice way of saying keep your ‘diplomacy skills’ out of the
meeting until we call your ass in to fuck something up. “Get settled and continue whatever
experiments you are able.”
That suits Ed fine. “Got it,” he tells her, Al bowing slightly, and she nods and strides out of
the room.
“What’s the General covering for you now?” Al says, going over to where Hawkeye put his
pack beside one of the beds.
“Nothing! He just doesn’t want me to mess up his asskissing session. Bastard decided we
need to get the wizards to like us and for some reason he wanted me in on that, because it’s
like he doesn’t learn or something.” Ed looks around for his own pack and finds it in the
corner, jacket on top, so he sets the equipment pack down next to it.
“Sounds to me like he’s covering for something you did,” Al says, taking off his own jacket
and folding it neatly into his pack, cane hung over his forearm. “Like transmute an entire
house with people still inside it.”
“That ended up fine! And that reminds me.” Ed stands in the center of the room and sticks his
hands on his hips, glaring up at the ceiling for lack of anywhere else to aim. “Hey. House,” he
says sharply. “This is my little brother. You try any funny shit with him and I will atomize
you. You play nice, we play nice, y’unnerstand?”
When he turns back around Al’s wearing the I don’t want to use any unfounded and
speculatory words like pigstuck crazy but I sure am thinking them look. “You talk to the
house?”
“I threaten the house,” Ed corrects. “It’s different. If it wants to throw any more pests at us it
had better understand the consequences.”
“Right,” Al says. “Understand them. Because it can hear them. With its ears.”
“Hey! You heard without ears just fine for a while there, remember? Besides, nothing about
magic already makes any sense, why should this be any different.”
“Point,” Al concedes, even if he still looks way too amused around the eyebrows. “Could an
entire house be animated by a bound soul, do you think? It seems like it would have too
many disparate parts. Given I started losing integrity towards the end there I can’t imagine it
would last very long either.”
“Well, given I didn’t get slingshotted right into the Gate when I transmuted this thing into a
new tax bracket, I’m gonna have to say no,” Ed says sarcastically. “Also, gross. Who the fuck
would bind a soul to an entire house?”
“If there hadn’t been a suit of armor in Dad’s study I would’ve been a book for six years,” Al
says peaceably. “Or a jar. Or a floorboard.”
Ed tries not to twitch visibly. He’s had that nightmare too. “Well, it was, so you weren’t. Suck
it up.”
Al hmms to himself, now also looking up and scanning the ceiling and corners. “I wonder if it
has anything to do with the qi density,” he murmurs. “Everything’s so concentrated here, and
fluctuates so rapidly. Is one behavior a function of the other…? And would a sufficiently
concentrated mass be capable of developing something like a mind?”
“Your research topic, not mine,” Ed says decisively. “The mystic goddamn currents are all
your area and I’m about goddamn ready to be done with soul shit, thanks.”
“Mm,” Al says, still watching the ceiling, though whatever he’s going to say next is
interrupted by a creak of floorboard at the door.
They both look over. It’s all of the damn kids, again, clustered up tight like they were gonna
try to peek around the edges of the open doorway, and they’re missing their babysitter. Ed
scowls. “Where’s Havoc?”
“In the map room,” Miss Redhead says, staring at Al as they shuffle more into the doorway.
“It’s right down the hall, we told him we were going to see you, it’s fine. Who’s that?”
“I’m Alphonse,” Al says cheerfully, turning to clasp his hands over the head of his cane and
give them a full Xing-style bow, all polite. “Hello everyone. Sorry my brother’s a huge
bitch.”
“Hey!”
The kids all burst into startled giggles, even Hairy and Not A Twin cracking reluctant grins.
Al smiles at them all, the goddamn traitor. “He’s going to say he hasn’t even done anything -”
“I haven’t even done anything!”
“- but he’s either wrong or just hasn’t gotten around to it yet.” Al’s gaze travels over the kids,
smiling cheerfully, and stops on Hairy.
His expression doesn’t change, but Ed can see the second it fixes in place. Bingo. Al’s
definitely sensing something there. “I haven’t done jack shit,” Ed says aloud. “Okay, not
much. I haven’t done anything bad.”
“You always say that, too,” Al says.
“Because it’s always true.” The giggling is dying down, but all of the kids are still staring at
Al like a pack of dachshunds transfixed by a single beef sausage.
Ed has, unfortunately, seen this look before, though usually it’s on the slavering hormoneriddled Central U undergrads that haunt the cafe Al likes to study at and occasionally make it
as far as their apartment for ‘study group purposes’. Smartypants and Miss Redhead are the
worst offenders, eyes big and rapt and entirely too hungry, though the speculative way the
twins are eyeing him isn’t reassuring either.
“Knock it off,” Ed tells them flatly. “This ain’t a meat counter. None of you are old enough
anyway.”
Not A Twin chokes; Smartypants makes a tiny little squeak. Al sighs and knocks his cane
against Ed’s flesh calf. “And this is why I apologize for you straight off the bat.”
“You’re twenty, right? That’s not old,” Miss Redhead says, totally ignoring Ed.
“Relatively speaking,” Al says, amused.
“That’s way too old!” Not A Twin squawks.
“So? I can look,” Miss Redhead retorts.
“No you can’t,” Ed and Not A Twin stress at the same time, then glare at each other.
Al coughs, a grin tucked into the corner of his cheek. He’s always way too tolerant of the
slavering wretches, too, because ‘they’re not that bad, brother’ and ‘you’re reading too much
into things’ and ‘maybe you should go out some yourself’. And he says Ed has no sense of
self-preservation. “What’s your name?”
“I’m gin ee,” Miss Redhead says instantly.
“He has a girlfriend,” Ed says, because it’s clearly time to bring out the big guns. “She’s
beautiful, she’s rich and she could break you with one hand. You know what, I think we
should invite her over here too, we could use her help -”
Ed’s cut off by Al grabbing his braid and firmly covering his mouth with one hand. “I could
always start talking about your love life,” Al tells him pointedly, which keeps Ed shut right
up when Al lets go. “I really am sorry about him. He got dropped on the head a lot as a baby
and then went and made a career out of it too. Your names are…?”
They all fall over themselves to give roll call while Ed glowers and Al ignores him. “You in
the army too?” one of the twins asks once the names have stopped sleeting past, eyeing Al up
like he thinks the sweatervest might be some kind of special uniform.
“Oh, no. Though I do consult occasionally.”
“He’s a medical researcher and he’s a specialist in exactly your kinda weird shit,” Ed says
shortly. “He’s in training to be a doctor.”
Al sighs at him in a way that makes Miss Redhead giggle again. Ed scowls deeper as Al turns
his smile back on Hairy. “I’m currently a clinician at the Imperial House of Purification Arts -
oh, sorry, that doesn’t really mean anything to you, does it? It’s a hospital in the Xingese
capital. We see a fair amount of unusual cases due to it having the most centralized research
wing, so when we have a moment I’d like to take a look if you - oh my goodness a kitty!”
An enormous yellow cat is pushing itself through the forest of teen legs in the doorway,
squash-faced and raggedy-eared and deeply smug looking. Naturally it goes straight to Al,
who immediately drops his cane to crouch and stick his fingers under its nose. “Oh, you’re a
big kitty, yes you are, ” he warbles, which of course makes the thing rear up and plant its
paws on Al’s knee. “Oh, hello! So friendly!”
“That’s crook shanks,” Smartypants says, far too approving for Ed’s taste. “He’s my cat. You
can pick him up if you like.”
“Oh, can I? Ooh, you’re a hefty boy!” Al descends into cooing madness as he hauls the
purring chunk into his arms, standing with some difficulty. “What a big sweetheart!”
“A doctor, huh,” a twin says.
“Yeah a doctor. He’s damn good at it.” Ed can see how one might not be awed by these
reports of great medical prowess, especially not with Al burying his face in the cat’s stomach
and saying “Who is just the most handsome boy! Who is the most regal, handsome boy!” in
a high-pitched baby voice, but he still takes offense. “The important thing for you is he’s
exactly the specialist we’re looking for.”
“And what a nice coincidence that is,” Not A Twin says in a sour voice, back to watching Ed
suspiciously. “That your brother just happens to be exactly the right guy. Though maybe
that’s not so strange to you, with your country running on nepotism.”
“I’m not the only one with the relevant experience,” Al says calmly, surfacing from the cat
lolling in his arms. “I’m just the one that happened to be geographically closest and
immediately available. And with the right clearance, I suppose. Who’s a darling handsome
boy? You are!”
Ed snorts. The combination of ‘medically trained qi sensing alchemist with a human
transmutation background and combat experience’ is definitely not a skillset that’s just found
lying on any corner, but if Al wants to downplay himself in front of the kiddies that’s his
prerogative. Al’s unflappability and kissy noises seem to be throwing Not A Twin for a loop,
too, even if it’s making Smartypants look disturbing intense again. “Your relevant experience
is with possession?” she says.
Al stifles a choking noise into the cat. “You could say that,” he says, sounding remarkably
non-strangled. “Possession is… definitely something I have experience with. Among other
things.”
Smartypants opens her mouth again, but there’s footsteps down the hall and a second later
Havoc shows up. “Oh, hey, Al,” he says, waving at Al and nodding at Ed. “The chief wants
you guys.”
Chapter End Notes
ed: and this is my little brother he’s basically a doctor there are no doctors better than
him in fact he invented medicine actually
al: EDWARD.
ed: what? the only people our mom can brag to are in the afterlife and that’s not nearly
enough market share. someone’s gotta pick up the slack
Chapter 32
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Roy folds his arms over his chest and looks at the map.
When Olivier came to him with the letter, he knew she knew what he was going to do,
because he’d finally managed to drag enough of Foreign Affairs into alignment to be able to
if not dictate strategy then at least order tactics. However Olivier may care about a childhood
fling, she would not have brought it to Roy unless she expected - wanted - a certain outcome.
Olivier might be a bloodthirsty bitch with a stone cold frozen heart but no more so than Roy
is, really, and on the plane of Amestris’ internal power struggles they tend to if not wholly
agree then at least not actively try to knife each other.
So she needed an alchemist, and she wanted Amestris strong. Building themselves up as a
nation means allies, resources, reach, opening the country to new ideas and weakening the
hold of the reactionaries who preferred the insular jingoism of the constant war days. That
means when an opportunity to assess a potential ally on the other side of Xing - one with a
largely unknown species of alchemy, no less - lands in their laps, they take it.
Roy had not anticipated… this. He’d fully expected to be able to dispatch the actual terrorist
problem to Fullmetal while he focused on getting the lay of the land and opening relations
with the wizarding nation: it’s why he brought Riza and Maes, who have their own offices to
manage and their own teams back home, instead of a squad from Special Operations with a
couple of up and comers from the sharpshooting pool or a pack of diplomatic attaches from
Foreign Affairs. He needed people he could trust to be effective and discreet and understand
that what they find on the other side of Xing might be things that should not make their way
back to Amestris. At least not yet.
And they’ve certainly found some of that. Roy’s hands throb in that particularly annoying
way they do nowadays when it’s damp or he’s having a particularly good wander down Shit
Memory Lane. This miserable little island is serving him both at once, so of course all the sad
little bones in his palms are making the most of it. He doesn’t uncross his arms to rub at the
scarring; both the convict and the ex-terrorist are in the room and Albus is examining the map
next to him, as Roy had asked him to look over what they’d managed to glean in the interests
of fact-checking the convict’s work.
Roy’s doing his own cross-examining. Simple logistics are working against them: their
physical dependency is significant with wizards using teleportation as a primary means of
transportation, and that may not even be something they can address. Roy can’t burn any
bridges because it’s thousands of kilometers just to get back to the boundary crossing to get
them home, and the distances involved even within this island are, according to Black,
anything from a day to three days’ ride by car or train. Not undoable, but leaving them at a
heavy disadvantage if moving independently from the wizards.
So they’re making nice. It’s requiring some more or less constant downshifting. Roy came
prepared to be open, friendly, and dealing with a national director of law enforcement:
someone intimately involved with the laws, attitude and conduct of the nation, by no means
in a minor position but not one equivalent to head of state - in other words, someone like him.
Instead he finds a tiny culture and a tinier government secreted away from the majority of the
population: a truly segregated society, as if all the alchemists in Amestris had suddenly
decided to secede themselves from the rest of the world and set up their own secret cult. He
has so far met Amelia Bones once, and while she does seem on the more competent side as
far as wizards go she felt a lot more like the harried municipal police chiefs Roy dealt with as
a colonel back in East than a national director of anything.
That’s probably the size of the wizarding population at fault, though the fact that a prophecy
is guiding the actions of not only the terrorists but the head of law enforcement - who herself
defers to the headmaster of what Roy has been able to determine is a prestigious boarding
school - is a bit much.
This whole situation is both bigger and so much smaller than he expected to find. They are
woefully underequipped to take on a problem of the magnitude that Father was, but so far
things don’t seem to be operating on that scale. If all similarities to the homunculi are set
aside, from what Roy’s understood so far the terrorism has been just that, a small band of
individuals striking out at mostly civilian targets. These wizards are calling it a war. Well,
alright: a small group of people can certainly do a lot of damage in the right circumstances,
and this society is small as well. Albus Whose Last Name Roy Will Never Try To Pronounce
is no general and this passel of teachers and family members are no soldiers, but this group in
this house is the war effort in its entirety. The utter lack of institutional backing does make
them vulnerable to, say, Roy taking the fuck over, but the maneuverability this grants him
does not outweigh the lack of resources.
At least Albus seems to understand this. Roy recognizes the occasionally distant look of a
man trying to do too much because there’s just no one else who can do the dozens of
exhausting little things that need to be done, specifically by you, you only, right now. He also
recognizes the look of someone having noticed that there’s a lot more teeth than tongue
behind Roy’s smile, though to be fair Roy’s been inexcusably sloppy in hiding both his
advantages and his disdain.
It’s unlikely to have shaken out any differently, however, circumstances being what they are.
Edward, just as paranoid as Roy if not quite in the same ways, was not wrong when he
identified Albus as being not very invested in the Potter child’s survival. There had been a
grim, quiet edge of desperation under the surface when Albus spoke of the… whore cruxes,
which Roy read as genuine distress at the situation: if Albus had been trying to project
remorse to the group he would’ve been more open about it. But no actual effort to protect the
child has been put forth, and Albus has clearly resolved himself to the boy’s death, even if
not totally reconciled himself with it. And everyone else in this dear little cadre of justice
warriors is either all on board or blissfully ignorant of this resolution.
Roy finds this to be some very woolly thinking. If the situation is as dire as Albus makes it
out to be and his mind so made up, killing the child eliminates a potential spy as well as one
of these all-important soul fragments. Maybe Albus doesn’t think he can get away with it
among this group if he does act openly, or isn’t confident in his ability to enact a cover-up,
but either way merely placing the boy in dangerous situations, withholding support and
hoping for the best is inefficient on top of being just plain cowardly.
That plus the widespread cavalier attitude towards telepathic creatures who can apparently
enter houses at will and shapeshift and-or induce hallucinations - not to mention outright
slavery - is not painting Roy a sparkling picture of the culture they’ve been dropped into. He
suspects his future is going to involve a lot of very angry Edward once this terrorist problem
is resolved, and Roy has half a mind to just slip his lead and tell Fullmetal to come back
when the slavery’s over.
This terrorist problem. Don’t give your enemy any credit they haven’t earned. Don’t
underestimate and don’t assume, either, and in this situation he’s going to err on the side of
not getting any of his people killed. Roy is not given to cutting others any slack by nature, but
he is not in a position to indulge anything but the preferences of their hosts. He focuses on
the recognition of Albus, the understanding of his position, reaches deep until it becomes
something like sympathy, until he can stand in the center of the feeling and turn a look on
Albus that is, for all intents and purposes, genuine.
“Would you have anything to add to our data?” It takes effort, but the best way to lie is not to
lie at all. “This has been from serious’s recollections and what we’ve managed to determine
so far from the state newspaper, but if you see anything you think is missing, please don’t
hesitate to write it in.”
Albus nods slowly, then draws his wand, still looking at the map. “If I may,” he says, and at
Roy’s gesture he waves the wand in a slow arc across the wall, a distant look of concentration
on his face.
And that’s another thing, Roy thinks critically, watching colored dots ripple in dozens across
the map, golden script blooming next to each with what is presumably details about the
incidents in question. All this with a simple, silent gesture of a wooden stick. It reminds him
far too much of Edward’s more complex transmutations: like alchemy is not a carefully
measured tool with an exhaustively rigid set of rules but a wish-granting well that he dips
into at will and flicks around to get exactly what he wants. His remodeling of this house, case
in point. And Roy knows better than anyone that alchemy doesn’t just give Edward anything,
and he can pick apart what’s actually happening, understands intellectually that Edward is
merely using different arrays consecutively and it’s only the speed with which he channels
the energy that makes it seem simultaneous. But the eyes see wood and metal and stone
moving in tandem, an entire building writhing into a new form, and the brain can't shake the
awe of seeing something that is, well. Magic.
And Roy may have range and pure destructive capability, but from what he’s seen magic is
dangerous for the same reason Edward is dangerous: versatility.
“Translation charms have never been my specialty, I’m afraid, but touching a point will cause
its text to be spoken aloud, which will then be comprehensible to you,” Albus says, folding
his hands into his sleeves across his chest, his wand disappearing within. “These are all the
incidents to my recollection, during the last war. Any event since the try wizard tournament is
marked in red - like so.”
“Most of the deaths we learned of from Black were individuals or pairs being picked off,”
Maes observes as he steps up beside Roy, eyes scanning the map. “Most of them grouped by
family, killed in or near their homes. Would you say that’s the majority of these as well?”
“Of the deaths, I’m afraid yes,” Albus says soberly. “Voldemort made it clear he would
personally target any who dared to oppose his actions.”
“And if you were muggle born, they went after you,” Black says from across the room, with
some bitterness. He shrugs when they glance at him. “If you sympathized in any way with
muggle borns, you were labeled a blood traitor and they came after you too. Molly’s
pureblood, but that didn’t stop death eaters from killing her brothers.”
That’s not exactly textbook takeover tactics, though once again, in a society this small Roy
has to adjust his parameters. Simply murdering whoever speaks out against you, regardless of
their position, would certainly cow most who heard of it into obeying any demands you
might make. “How complete is their control over the state now?” he says. “On estimate.
Since Amelia is one of yours, I assume that at least some of the law enforcement forces are
clean. Given the deployment of war weapons and the subsequent summons to trial, I’m
further assuming enough of the national security and judicial organs are compromised to
qualify them as enemy tools. What other avenues does the enemy have for attacking you
through the state?”
The door opens; Riza slips in and closes it behind her, taking up position on the other side of
the doorway. Roy nods to her, and everyone’s attention shifts back to him; he raises his
eyebrows at Albus.
“We are not certain yet that the ministry is so compromised,” Albus says. “It may well be that
factions opposed to me are taking advantage of the dementer attack to discredit Hairy and
press their own advancement. No one wishes for Voldemort to have returned, you see.
Without proof they would prefer to live in a world where the war is over, and I cannot say I
fully blame them.”
“We don’t have access to motives,” Roy says, trying not to sound like an exhausted teacher
trying to explain addition to a very dull student for the nth time. “We only see what has been
done. If they are acting compromised, it is safest to assume that they are unless proven
otherwise.”
Albus inclines his head but is clearly not convinced, and the rest of the wizards are taking
their cues from him. Roy holds in a sigh. They may as well move on directly to actionable
objectives; useful intel seems to crop up most in the nitty-gritty with these people anyway,
such as the charming little revelation of the tongue-binding tattoo.
“So far, the enemy has struck through your government rather than risk any of their own
number personally,” he says, uncrossing his arms. “Though given the apparent overwhelming
preference for individual assassination, as evidenced by the last war,” he gestures at the map,
“we can likely expect that next. As I doubt any of us are interested in sitting around waiting
for an attack, we can begin by taking one of their known generals off the board. Luscious
Malfoy, wasn’t it?”
“You’ve found a way to dispel the binding of the mark?” the ex-terrorist says, in a tone that
indicates he highly fucking doubts it.
“There are ways around that sort of thing,” Maes says unconcernedly. “We can test them on
you later. Our primary goal here isn’t to get information anyway. You said this Malfoy is
well-connected, powerful, rich? Sounds like a critical resource for your lord Voldemort. Let’s
remove it.”
“Yeah. Yeah, you know what - why shouldn’t we?” Black says, pushing off from the wall
he’s leaning against. “Grab him, question him, whatever ways you’ve got, obliviate him after.
Even if he’s got his cronies with him, hell, I bet we could take them if we all had a go.”
“Serious,” Albus says.
“What? They sent dementers after hairy. I don’t know about you but I’m done playing nice.”
“If Lucius disappears even for a day there will be an uproar,” Albus says. “Inquiries will be
opened immediately, and that’s only if he is engaged quietly enough not to trip any alarms.”
“What do we care?” Maes says bluntly. “No, really, serious question. What reason do we
have to care? If we make it look like he faked his own death that’ll throw everybody off - the
death eaties will think he deserted and everybody else will assume they turned on their own.”
“Is faking someone’s death your solution to everything?” the ex-terrorist drawls.
“Worked for me,” Maes says brightly. Roy holds back both a snort and a grimace; they’d
faked his death all right, but only because he’d nearly actually died. It had been far too close.
Maes still can’t turn his torso all the way to the left anymore and was only let back on solids
last year, even if he’d been up on his feet two months after the coma.
“If we do it right, nothing will point back to you,” Maes continues. “Because it sounds like
you lot don’t make a habit of assassination.”
“We do not,” Albus says. “Because Voldemort made it clear that any action against him will
be met with tenfold retribution - against loved ones, against children. Striking at Lucius will
almost certainly goad him into a display of force. It will not be against us: he will choose
some muggle school, some innocent family, someone we have no way to identify and protect,
and make an example of them.”
“Hence making it look like he faked his death,” Maes says patiently. He’s a lot better at not
sounding like he thinks wizards are morons; must come from having kids and having to
explain one thousand times that no, sweetie, you can’t eat icecream that fell and melted in the
sandbox. “And if we pry enough information out of him fast enough, we can make it look
like he sold some death eatie secrets before he fled.”
“You can leave the abduction to us,” Roy says, as reassuring as his voice gets. “Be seen in
public during the operation, even, to allay suspicion. We will likely need the assistance of at
least two individuals who can apparate, but my understanding is that any one of the order can
do so. If you take care of transport, we can handle the rest.”
“You will need me for the verity serum,” the ex-terrorist says. “And Albus to meet, to be able
to take Malfoy into Grimmauld place. He won’t be able to enter in any way unless told the
secret by the secret-keeper.”
“I wanted to ask about that, actually,” Maes says, pushing up his glasses. “What kind of
traces are on you? And what happens when you enter this house? Do you just blink off the
radar? Because if enough of you start disappearing when you go to the same place over and
over someone’s gonna add up these not very complicated numbers and get home base. They
don’t need to be able to see this house to camp outside of it and wait for someone to come
out.”
“Sever us, Alastor and I are personally warded against such tracking, and have been since the
last war,” Albus says. “None of the others are considered of sufficient interest to warrant
active surveillance. We have largely been apparating from within the house, save for when
someone needs to be given the secret.”
“Could someone be tracking you through the ministry’s resources?” Maes presses. “Without
official knowledge or approval?”
Albus and the ex-terrorist exchange glances. “Personal relationships... may be prevailed
upon, to supply certain information,” Albus says carefully. “But the ministry is also not
watchful for Imperius or poly juice now, not as they were during the last war. It is not out of
the question for infiltrators to be sent out, and to be successful.”
“Imperius,” Maes repeats. “Poly juice. What, exactly…”
“Imperius is a curse,” Black speaks up again. “One of the unforgivables. It makes you do as
you’re told, though it’s possible to fight it, if you’re a strong enough wizard. Poly juice is a
potion - you need a bit of the person you’re turning into, a hair or nail clipping or something,
but once you drink it you’ll turn into them for an hour.”
Roy and Maes stare at him, faces reflexively blanked in horror. More fucking shapeshifting.
No wonder Black and the children hadn’t been alarmed by the creature that morphed into
nightmares: it’s common here, and clearly weaponized. “What protocols are in place to
counter that?” Roy says, voice coming out more clipped than he’d like.
“There’s no detection charm for the Imperius, though if someone’s acting kind of weird -
dazed, repeat themselves, repeating actions - that’s usually a pretty good sign,” Black says.
“Polyjuice can be reversed with a dispelling charm,” the ex-terrorist says. “During the last
war anyone to enter the ministry was subject to it. It reverses itself after an hour as well, on
the dot.”
“And among you?” Roy says. “What is in place to ascertain you are not dealing with
imposters?” Maes hadn’t woken in time to warn them of Envy and what it could do, but
afterward Roy had been sufficiently paranoid to add identification signs and countersigns to
his team’s codenames. They would have to do the same for Jones and Arget here as well.
He’d had a moment after they’d cleared the house where he felt he’d lost his temper against
that… bog art, and regretted it; now he finds he mostly regrets not burning a little hotter.
“A death eater impersonated Moody last year,” the ex-terrorist says laconically. “Since then
we have made a habit of checking for poly juice whenever we meet outside Grimmauld
place. Someone under Imperius would be able to enter, but not reveal the location or grant
access to it. Complex cognition and any tasks requiring more independent thought than
walking tend to be impossible under Imperius, which makes it fairly recognizable to those
looking for it.”
Isn’t that just wonderful. “Do you foresee anything specific that would preclude us from
taking Malfoy?” Roy says directly. “Anything like, say, his magically binding tattoo.”
“Lucius is an ambitious target,” Albus says slowly. “Amelia and Alastor would know better
than we what specific wards he may have on his person; they have watched him quite closely
even if they could not move openly for his arrest. I can say this: he would have to be taken
very quietly. Any obfuscation around his disappearance would have to be absolute.
Voldemort thinks nothing of massacring muggles just to make a point. As for what he would
do in retribution for such a strike against him…”
“All the more reason for us to act before he further consolidates his resources,” Roy says.
“We of course welcome any input you have in regards to laying a convincingly false trail, as
well as any other aspect of concern about the operation.”
“Allowing Malfoy in on the Fidelius would compromise this location,” the ex-terrorist says.
“Even if you obliviate him, the charm would see him as having access.”
So the ex-terrorist, at least, assumes that they’ll be turning Malfoy loose when they’re done
with him. “Obliviate?” Maes asks, before Roy can address that.
“A memory charm. It suppresses memories targeted by the caster.”
Roy has to stare again. “Ah,” Maes says after a second. “Of course. Another one of your
unforgivables, huh.”
“No,” the ex-terrorist says, a trace of amusement back in his voice. Edward hadn’t been
wrong when he’d identified this one as enjoying himself at these little talks, either. “It is
commonly used on muggles who see something they shouldn’t.”
So that’s how they maintain their untenable cult society. First slavery, now this. Amestris may
be the bloodiest war dog on their side of the Divide but at least they haven’t had slavery since
Xerxes disappeared, and no madman has managed to create an array for mind control yet. It
is increasingly likely that Roy’s official report to Emperor Ling is going to strongly
encourage setting up some very strict border controls at the boundary and tracking down and
interrogating every merchant who’s crossed over the Divide. Who the hell knows what they
might have brought over without telling anyone, or what they’ve done. If it’s possible to
learn this magic, all it would take is one scruple-free bastard to wreak havoc through a
society entirely unprepared for such a threat.
Riza’s stone-faced by the door; her eyes are behind Roy, on Jones and Arget. Those two are
now in this deeper than even Roy expected. They’re here because Maes trusts them, but now
Roy has to trust them as well. He’s going to have to set some guarantees in motion.
“Well then. Can you set up the same protective measures on another location?” Maes says to
the wizards, only a slight edge to his smile indicating that he’s focusing on the practicals so
as not to shout. “This is a bit more residential than we like our ops centers.”
“Yes. It will take time to cast the Fidelius,” the ex-terrorist says. “You wanted to use Potter as
bait, to follow a death eater to their current base. You may as well do that while we determine
how best to take Malfoy out from under the dark lord’s nose.”
“Whoa, hold up,” Black says, taking a fre steps forward, his tone much sharper than before.
“Use hairy as bait?”
“It is only an option,” Albus placates - effectively, Roy notes: Black doesn’t exactly settle,
but he’s definitely backing down. “We may only need to use his wand, for its trace.” That’s
also not the tune he was singing in the meetings Black was not privy to: either he doesn’t
want to deal with whatever fuss Black may cause right now or he intends to keep the child’s
involvement to himself until it’s too late to protest. “We are still determining what is viable.
We have yet to show you the hog’s head, Roy - I apologize for not getting to it today, but we
were caught up at the ministry longer than we anticipated. I assume you would prefer not to
see the surrounding landscape in the dark? Then let us go first thing tomorrow.”
“There a building close by we can put those wards on?” Maes says, glancing at Roy. “We’re
terraforming, right?”
“Most likely,” Roy says; if the proposed ambush site turns out to be a relatively acceptable
spot he can have Edward further optimize it with his earthworks. “If there’s no suitable
structure nearby we can make one.”
“Ah, yes,” Albus says, glancing around the corners of the ceiling. “It’s good to have proof
young Edward’s transfigurations won’t affect any wards we may place on a building.”
Roy lets that one slide - for now. “Indeed. It’s good to know alchemy and magic are not
disruptive to each other,” he says, meaning it. “Though of course we’d need to see more
before we can fully commit to any tactics - as you said, our execution must be impeccable.
Especially with the revelations of these control and memory spells.”
“Of course. You asked for a demonstration of the death eaters’ favored spells,” Albus says.
“Alastor has volunteered to conduct such a demonstration and Amelia agreed to oversee it.
We will be able to do it here, I think, if the back yard still has a functional extendable hedge
charm.”
“Probably,” Black says, grimacing.
There’s a knock on the door, and a moment later Havoc sticks his head in. “Do we need more
translation, chief? Only Ms. Molly says she wants the kids for cleaning.”
There are curious teenage faces trying to see around Havoc’s bulk. “I think we’re set for
now,” Roy says. He feels very much done here; he’s yet to brief Havoc on the full extent of
the situation, and better to have the rest of them read in on security measures against
shapeshifters now as well as talk to Edward before tossing him into the arena. “Go get the
Elrics. We’ll catch Alphonse up to speed.” He inclines his head to Albus. “If you’ll excuse
us. Let us know when Madam Bones arrives and we can begin.”
Chapter End Notes
me, 20 words away from finishing this scene: wait where’s lupin
me: ….. IN THE BATHROOM I GUESS
also i genuinely don’t mean to rag on hp canon that much but i keep on picking pov
characters who are huge fucking bitchholes. go figure
Chapter 33
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Mustang exits the map room before Ed and Al can enter, paying no attention to the milling
kids or Beardy and the other wizards behind him - though Beardy nods and takes off pretty
much immediately, Lemons behind him. “There you are,” Mustang says to Ed. “Are these
rooms combinable?” He gestures between the three doors on their side: bedrooms, all of
them, and presumably where everybody’s bunking down.
“Yeah,” Ed says. There’s only two load-bearing posts up here on this side of the house and he
can work around them, easy. “You want one big room?”
“Yes. Furniture should be fine as is.”
Ed squints at him. “Why?”
Mustang sighs. “Given the nature of our situation, the prudent option would be to separate
ourselves as little as possible.”
“Paranoid,” Ed says approvingly.
“Apparently the elf also enters people’s rooms at night and goes through their things,”
Hughes says brightly, popping out of the door behind Mustang. “And who knows what else
might be around, given teleportation and pests with telepathy. Are you doing the
transmutation now? Okay, everybody out!”
“Creature isn’t that bad,” Smartypants protests, but goes with the rest when Hughes makes
vigorous shooing motions and sends them off down the stairs, Psycho with them. Havoc
makes to go too, but Mustang motions for him not to bother; Ed’s gonna hope the lecture
about staying together in one suspicious little clique stuck in at least one of those teenage
brains.
Just like Mustang’s encouraging their own sticking together by making themselves a new
clubhouse. “Okay, let’s do it,” Ed says, raising his hands. Mustang looks like he’s gonna say
something, but Ed’s already pressing his palms together and Mustang doesn’t open his mouth
so it can’t be that important. Ed sticks his elbow against the wall and channels the
transmutation into the house that way to keep the energy circling - it’s only three arrays this
time, because removing the dividing walls is mostly a matter of adding the excess plaster to
the other walls and shunting the wood beams into the spaces under the floor. There’s no pipes
up here in this section - bathroom’s on the other side of the stairs - so everything grinds into
place in under a minute.
He keeps the three doors, because multiple exits is always handy and it’s easier to seal off a
doorway than create a new one with a functioning hinged door. Al opens one as the crackling
energy dies down, poking his head in and nodding. “Hang on, I’m gonna make showers,” Ed
says distractedly, trying to decide whether to pull pipes or make more space in the existing
third floor bathroom first - if he extends one of those walls all the way back, they can have it
open directly into the new big room they won’t have to schlep through the hall while wet or
whatever.
“Ground floor,” Al says, catching his elbow and pushing it away from the wall before he can
activate a fresh array. “That way you can pull what you need from the dirt. You’re not going
to find enough carbides up here.”
“Actually,” Mustang says, “Alphonse, I hate to impose, but could you take care of it? I need
to speak with your brother.”
“What now?” Ed complains, but Al just says “Of course, General,” and Mustang just heads
for where the hall turns a corner, which gives Ed no choice but to follow.
-oAl looks at Sergeant Jones and Corporal Arget. Then he looks at Ed, stomping after the
General. He looks back at the Corporal and Sergeant. Then he looks over at Hughes. “How
much do you owe me?”
Hughes sighs, digs out his wallet and hands over some bills; Hawkeye sighs and looks away
pointedly, but by now Al knows what it looks like when she’s hiding a smile. He counts, then
quirks an eyebrow. “Two and a half?”
“One direct, one clear interest but no follow through,” Hughes says. “And about half of those
kids are salivating, which I figure stacks out to about one with the way they’ve been
following him.”
“I see,” Al allows. The math is a little fuzzy, but as it’s money in his favor, if Hughes has
decided it counts then why not let it count.
“You… bet on your brother,” Sergeant Jones says slowly, like he’s seeing a fundamental
realization dawn.
“Not quite,” Al says, pocketing the cash. “You could say I’m running an experiment.”
“It’s not bets on Ed,” Havoc says, grinning. “More… circumstances around Ed.”
Corporal Arget makes a tiny wheezy noise as the realization seems to hit her too. Hughes
grins at her. “You know, you aren’t anywhere near his chain of command. The fraternization
regs don’t apply to you either.”
The Corporal now looks like it’s even odds whether she’ll bury herself in a hole in the ground
dug with nothing but her fingernails or faint. While she’s doubtlessly a very capable person,
that doesn’t bode well for her chances of dealing successfully with Ed. He gets confused
when people don’t bite back, and then he gets upset when it turns out he’s been inadvertently
bullying someone instead of just having a conversation.
Nonetheless. “Looking to lose some more money, Colonel?” Al asks, smiling at Hughes.
“Oh, you know me! Anything for my dear comrades’ happiness,” Hughes chirps. “Told your
brother any more horror stories from the venereal clinic lately?”
Touché. “I’ve actually been on the cardiac rotation for the last few months,” Al says. “It’s
been very educational. Astonishing, really, the kind of effects stress can have on the heart.”
“Exactly,” Hughes says, giving Al a cheesy, overdone and entirely genuine wink. “The
heart’s just as important as the brain, you know - keeps you going!”
“Oh, I completely agree,” Al says. He does. Ed may be an idiot in this arena, but even idiots
deserve help. “Speaking of things that keep us going, I’d better see about those showers…
Stand back, please.”
-o-
“Hate to impose, my ass,” Ed mutters, thumping after Mustang. “What?”
Mustang leans one shoulder against the wall, arms folded but in the casual way, not the Life
Is Testing Me Via You Specifically, Fullmetal way. “You have a demonstration match tonight
where we know very little about the opponents save that they have an advantage in both
maneuverability and range. As the goal is to determine capability, it will likely be a matter of
endurance to draw the most information out.” His eyes tick briefly down Ed’s body,
assessing. “I know you’ve done more on less, but there’s no harm in conserving your
energy.”
Ed is stuck staring in total gearshift for a second, because he was expecting another reamout
on who the fuck knows what, but Mustang’s - checking resources, right. “Fuck off, I’m fine,”
Ed says automatically. Then, grudgingly, to Mustang’s increasingly skeptical look, “I took a
nap.”
Mustang’s eyebrows curve upwards. Wow, his whole face, stance, and silent air of judgment
screams. “Shut up,” Ed tells him preemptively, jabbing a finger at the stupid brigadier bling
pinned across his chest. “Isn’t that what you just said you wanted? Here I am, reporting for
goddamn duty, fresh as an alchemically gifted daisy.”
“I’m not sure we could go that far,” Mustang says, giving him a more explicit once-over and
making it clear the results are less than impressive.
Ed scowls back. “I don’t look that bad.”
Mustang extends a hand and uses one finger to draw aside some of the loose hair around Ed’s
jaw. “You have brick-print impressions all down the side of your face here.”
“What!” Ed slaps a hand to his cheek and scrubs furiously. “Ugh, fuck, the chimney.”
“I suppose that answers the question of where you took your nap,” Mustang sighs, folding his
arm back over his chest. “And that I should be grateful you weren’t just passed out on the
sidewalk.”
“And Al didn’t even say anything, the little traitor,” Ed complains, still trying to rub the skin
dents away. “We were talking for like half an hour!”
“It’s not too visible with your bangs down like that,” Mustang says. “It’s possible he didn’t
notice.”
Ed glares at him through his hair, scrubbing at the sides of his head to pull more loose from
the braid and add more cover to his bangs. “As fuckin’ if. Al sees everything.”
“In that case I assume he thought it could only improve your image.” Mustang watches Ed
for a moment. “There are advantages to having me conduct the demonstration instead.”
Ed scowls harder as he takes a last swipe at his cheek, blowing some staticky strands out of
his eyes. “I already screwed whatever low profile I might’ve had when I crunched those
dementer things. Only one who saw what you can do so far is Psycho. I don’t trust these
fuckers. Better nobody sees your pansy ass coming.”
“Very well.” Mustang sighs. “And now you look like a scarecrow. Just redo the braid.”
“I’ll redo your face,” Ed says automatically. “I ain’t here to win no beauty pageant.”
“You forget that I’ve seen what you do to your hair,” Mustang says, pushing off from the wall
and heading back towards everybody else. “Alchemically assisted blowdrying is impressive,
I’ll admit, but also something I expect more from Armstrong than from you.”
“It’s efficient!”
“Mhm. Undeniably.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“Why, nothing. Isn’t that what you usually assume it means when I open my mouth and
noises come out?”
“Well someone’s cranky,” Ed grumbles. “Relax. I’m good to kick ass. I’m not gonna fuckin’
embarrass your Lord High Generalship at the demo.”
“I couldn't care less,” Mustang says, an edge of coldness surfacing in his voice. It’s not at Ed
- he knows better now, Mustang doesn’t talk like that to his people - but it does tell him
there’s storm clouds a-brewin’ on Planet Bastard. “Let them think us weaker than we are. We
need every advantage we can get our hands on.”
That sobers Ed all the way up. “I’m about to brief all of you,” Mustang says, probably
sensing that Ed’s going to demand what the fuck he just found out now.
“You’d better,” Ed says, seriously not looking forward to finding out what’s got Mustang
checking in on him like a worried auntie when usually he figures Ed’s the one doing the math
on whether he can handle something or not. Shit, did he and Hughes find out there is a
national array? They’re not hauling ass in full evac, so maybe not, but it’s definitely not
anything good.
Everybody else is now in the big room, where it turns out Al’s done exactly what Ed meant to
do and attached the bathroom via a new door. “You told me ground floor,” Ed says
accusingly, poking his head in to look over the gleaming set of three new brass-tapped
shower cubicles; Al even frosted the glass.
“Because you can’t do distance transmutation,” Al says all reasonable, the little fucker. His
eyes flick to Mustang, just for a second, before he frowns at Ed. “What did you do to your
hair?”
“Fucking - for fuck’s sake.” Ed yanks the tie off, snaps it on his wrist and drags his braid
apart, shaking everything out. “Happy?”
“Now you look like that lady’s dog we saw in Versahn that hadn’t been groomed in three
years,” Al says.
“Fuck you too,” Ed tells him. He knows he looks dumb when his hair is all elbows from
being stuck in a braid for days; he’ll put it back up when the marks on his cheek fade off.
“Brief us, Mustang. Where are we doing this?”
Mustang takes them back into the map room, where he explains that Beardy did some pushto-talk thing to all the glowy spots on the wall. Ed tests one - it announces heart ford Shire
killings, seventeen dead, Gordon and Alyssa Slatham, Margaret Brewder, Elias, Issac, Clare,
Ethel… and keeps listing off names in a weirdly smooth disembodied female voice. Ed has to
suppress the urge to poke like, eight at once and see what the results sound like, because
that’d be childish and kind of morbid, and also they have bigger problems to worry about.
Fifteen minutes later Ed would like to go back in time and slap himself for clearly cursing
them all with understatement. Mustang tells them about the mind control. And the
shapeshifting potion. And the fucking memory erasing. No fucking wonder he was cranky.
Ed is now exactly as cranky as Mustang is, only they passed cranky eight altitude markers
ago and are now well up the slopes of Mt. Pissed.
“So we’re taking their guy, right?” Ed demands. “The Malboy guy? The one where they
know where he lives?”
“As soon as you have a workable version of your proposed array,” Mustang confirms.
Al raises a hand slightly. “Who…?”
“One of the terrorist main players. They know who he is,” Hughes says, grinning way too
wide. “They know his name, his face, his affiliations, they have eyewitness testimony of his
involvement in the murder of a child at the very least and they know his home address. Do
you want to know what they’ve done about it?”
“Nothing?” Al guesses.
“Nothing!” Hughes exclaims, wide-eyed and venomous with incredulity.
“They claim they’ve had him watched,” Mustang says, “but it remains to be seen if that will
yield anything useful in any way whatsoever. If your array works as intended, Fullmetal, it
may not matter what exactly the details of his magical protections are, but we are going to be
very sure and very thorough in its efficacy before we rely on it.”
“Yeah. We need to have them show us that mind control shit tonight,” Ed says grimly. “Fuck
no to the memory thing though. Is that even reversible?”
“They did not hurry to assure us that it was,” Mustang says with acid cynicism. “So we’re
going to preclude that entirely. As they also routinely use it on those without magic who they
feel know too much, I trust I don’t have to encourage anyone to be on their guard.” His eyes
travel across them and end on Ed. “Or that we need the array as soon as possible.”
“No fuckin’ kidding,” Ed says flatly, right hand flexing. “We got some ideas. A day, maybe
two days tops. It’ll need a fuckton of testing, though, I’m telling you now, because this one
will kill people if we don’t calibrate it right. Though - hey, we can try it on Lemons, flip it on
and see if his stupid tattoo falls off. Then we can try it on the kid.”
“Potter?” Mustang says.
“Yeah, should be a one step cure for all his possession problems.” Ed nudges Al. “You saw
something there. Spill.”
Al doesn’t do anything so obvious as look at Jones and Arget - he looks at Mustang instead,
who gives a single impatient wave that manages to convey it’s fine, everything’s fucked
anyway, they are now also firmly strapped into this fucking sleighride, that whooshing sound
you just heard was their security clearances skyrocketing and we’ll deal with the fallout as it
comes.
“There’s definitely something there,” Al says, on this confirmation. “I… don’t know that I
could definitively call it a soul - the Colonel mentioned to you that the, ah, magic seems to be
manifesting as qi, yes? Well, it’s not behaving like any ambient qi I’ve encountered before.
People read about the same, but everything here is very… saturated, concentrated? Sorry,” Al
adds a little sheepishly. “All the qualitative terms I know for qi are in Xingese.”
“You’re doing fine,” Mustang says, less reassurance and more keep talking.
“Right. What I’m sensing from him feels distinct from his life force, but it’s not really… it
doesn’t feel like two people in one body. Wizards don’t feel different from us, though, and
the magic-qi is… well, everywhere. I can’t identify if there’s anything specific binding the
two disparate qi together.” Al doesn’t have much in the way of automatic facial expressions
anymore, especially when distracted - six damn years in the armor - but he sounds like he’s
narrowing his eyes. “If it’s bound to him with magical energy, then removing that will
separate the malignant qi from his own and cause it to disperse. In theory.”
“It’s not bound by anything else,” Ed says, then amends, “that we can tell right now.”
“Discorporealized souls are kept on the plane by the containment field created by a blood
rune,” Al says. “Alchemically speaking. So if it’s magic as a localized energy field that’s
doing the work here, the principle is the same. There shouldn’t be a need for more of a
disruption than just eliminating the field.”
“If the array doesn’t work to remedy the boy’s specific problem,” Mustang says. “What are
our options?”
Al taps a finger slowly on the head of his cane, thoughtful. “We’re trying very much not to
kill him, yes?”
“Duh,” Ed says as Mustang nods.
Al shrugs slightly, making a small equivocating gesture with one hand. “We could interrupt
the qi flow to the brain, but that’s an option on a timer. It’s not as bad as cutting off oxygen,
but we’d have maybe three minutes before there’s a risk of brain damage.”
“You can do that?” Ed says, mystified.
“Yes,” Al says. “It’s very unpleasant.”
“How?”
“Needles.”
Ed shudders. Xingese medicine is way too fucking into porcupining people in the name of
healthcare. “What’ll cutting off the qi do?”
“If it’s bound to the qi itself, the malignant presence may, hm, starve, essentially, if cut off
from the main life flow. That may cause it to die off and disperse, or maybe not.” Al sets his
mouth slightly. “If this is a… piece of soul, as posited by the wizards, then human
transmutation would also bring about a scenario where separating the souls is possible. The
last thing we want to do is try the Gate, though. Medically speaking.”
“It’d probably kill the kid, stick the evil soul chunk in the driver’s seat and then send him
back to us as a mini lord vaudeville, full on possessed this time,” Ed says flatly. “And all
that’s apart from him not being an alchemist, so one of us would have to activate the
transmutation and get our asses joked too. No fuckin’ Gate.”
“Quite,” Mustang says, humorless. “Is there an option without a brain damage disclaimer?”
Al hmms . “I could stop his heart.”
“That’s better?” Ed says incredulously.
Al shrugs. “It wouldn’t be brain death. I have enough experience with defibrillation via
alkahestry to be able to restart him without tissue damage. There are ways to keep oxygen
circling through the blood as well, but - this would essentially be a way to trick his body into
thinking it’s dead, and hoping the shock ejects anything non-native to his qi system. That
would likely require simulating conditions of cardiac arrest as realistically as possible.”
“So we either choke his brain or give him a heart attack?” Ed says. “Fuck.”
Al shrugs again. “Any interruption to the body’s qi system is a shock. The malignant qi on
him is localized, which makes me hopeful that it’s not bound or integrated in any way to his
overall system, but it’s in a place that’s very difficult to isolate without tissue collateral. On
balance, stopping his heart would be the less risky option.”
“Better make the array work, then,” Ed decides.
“I’m going to take a closer look at him as well,” Al says. “There are some diagnostics I can
run that require contact to get a better read on his qi system. From what I understand we can’t
really tell him anything, yes?”
“Yeah, tell him you’re treating him for snake nightmares,” Ed says. “Don’t tell him we
suspect lord vasectomy is listening in via his brain, though, that’s hushy hush.”
Al tips his head to the side. “Mm. Psychosomatic trauma as a cover will work, yes.”
“We got that damn demo thing tonight. We can start work on the array after, though. Gotta be
a room around here we can use as a lab.”
“For all our sakes I hope we don’t encounter any other magical revelations tonight that we’ll
have to account for,” Mustang says. “Though recent experience indicates we shouldn’t bet on
it. Havoc, Hawkeye - with me, let’s talk transport. Fullmetal, go find your lab space.”
“And we have all these wonderful new fatalities to pore over,” Hughes exults, spreading his
arms to encompass Jones and Arget as he turns back to the softly glowing map. “Isn’t our job
wonderful?”
“We should probably check that nobody’s fucked off with the kid yet either,” Ed says to Al as
they exit the map room. “The wizards keep trying to shunt him off to his relatives, because
I’m pretty sure their solution to his haunted brain problem is to kill him. The relatives live
right where he got attacked by the fuckin’ dementer thingies - shit, if he hadn’t been in the
park then they probably would’ve come after him at home.”
“I’ll find him,” Al says, sounding thoughtful. “I should speak with him anyway. Especially if
I end up having to do anything as intensive as simulated cardiac arrest. It would be
inconvenient to discover he has any pre-existing medical conditions while we’re in the
middle of trying to convince his body it’s dead.”
“Fuckin’ tell me about it,” Ed says as they head down the stairs. “That’d be awkward as
hell.”
Chapter End Notes
al: i care about my brother & want him to find happiness & love but i know he is Big
Stupid so i have to help him out
al: edward elric why the fuck do you always look like shit
Chapter 34
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
While life has certainly gotten very interesting with the addition of the Unplottables to
Grimmauld Place, with Dumbledore here it becomes a choice of whether to eavesdrop on him
or on them. With Mum back Fred and George’s opportunities to attach themselves to
anything interesting with impunity diminish significantly, and Dumbledore is almost certainly
headed her way; on the other hand, it’s going to be harder to eavesdrop on the Unplottables
with them constantly striding around and going from room to room and regularly creating
entirely new rooms just for the hell of it. Elric especially likes to rearrange his surroundings
without warning, and they only have so many Extendable Ears.
Everybody else is clearly thinking along the same wavelength, because after Sirius gives
them a Look, claps Harry on the shoulder and heads off after Dumbledore Hermione huddles
them all in the eaves under the staircase on the second floor landing. “They’re going to do
something tonight,” Ginny says. “Another Order meeting?”
“They said they’d begin when Bones gets here,” Hermione says. “And I heard Dumbledore
ask about whether the backyard was extendable. That’s not an Order meeting. Why do they
need to be outside?”
“Reckon we can use the Extendable Ears?” George says. “They might not think to ward the
back door, if they’re going outside.”
“Or, hey,” Ron says. “The invisibility cloak.”
“Oh, bollocks,” Harry says with serious feeling.
“What?”
“It’s at the Dursleys,” Harry says, now kind of sick-looking. “With the rest of my things. I
didn’t even think about it, since Hedwig was out of her cage and found us right away…”
Ron and Hermione exchange looks. “Maybe we can ask Lupin to go get it?”
Harry’s jaw clenches. “He wanted me to go back there.”
That is true. “And if you ask Lupin to go and get it now, he’ll probably ask why you need it
so bad, and that’s not going to be a good answer, is it,” Ron says grimly.
“What if you just Accio Cloak?” Ginny says.
“Ginny, it’s in Surrey,” Hermione says.
“Harry Accio’d his Firebolt from inside the castle last year,” Ron says.
“Yes, but Surrey is a lot farther than Hogwarts was from the grounds.”
Ginny frowns in concentration. “What if we all Accio Cloak at the same time?”
Hermione opens her mouth, then pauses and also frowns in concentration. “If we all do it on
three…”
“Tried it,” Fred says.
“Doesn’t work,” George says.
“The spells don’t compound -”
“- they compete. The object gets summoned -”
“- to two different points, essentially.”
“Nice thought though.”
“Yeah, good thinking outside the box, Gin.”
“You might be a Weasley after all.”
“The map,” Harry says suddenly. He looks even worse than before. “The Marauders’ Map.
It’s with my things too.”
That makes all of them pause. Fred and George look at each other. Harry had given them the
Triwizard earnings. They’re the only ones who can apparate, the only ones who can cast any
spells without the Statute getting sicced on them. They’re also least likely to be missed for,
say, half an hour.
“Leave it to us,” they say.
Harry’s eyes go big, like this is completely out of the realm of what he expected could be
possible. “You’re going to go get it?”
“Why not?” Fred says.
“We got you that one time,” George says.
“Might as well get all your things.”
“Don’t have the Ford this time -”
“- but Weasleys make do.”
“Will you be able to take all his things with you when you apparate?” Hermione says.
“Please,” Fred says.
“How do you think we cart all our merchandise around?”
“Not to mention hide it from Mum’s searches.”
“Shrinking Charms are our specialty.”
“Are you packed, Hazza? Or are we going to have to prance around the house picking up
your laundry?”
“I - all my stuff is already in my trunk, yeah,” Harry says, tense but starting to sound
cautiously hopeful. “Everything important, anyway.”
“Then it won’t take fifteen minutes.”
“In, out, there and back again.”
“It really will have to be quick,” Hermione warns, because she’s a Prefect to the bone despite
being surprisingly open to certain kinds of criminal activity. “We don’t know when Madam
Bones will get here and they might lock all the doors and put Impermeable Charms on
everything again. Wait! Do you know how to Disillusion yourselves?”
“You think we need to?” Fred says.
“What if someone’s watching Harry’s house?” Hermione says. “I’d post a watch if I thought
somebody might come and see what happened to the dementors, at the very least. And if
there’s an Order member watching it like Mundungus was supposed to, we’ll be caught. It
won’t work against Mad Eye, but Disillusionment should cover you from anyone else.”
“How does this disillusionment work exactly?” a voice says behind them.
Hermione gasps. They spin around. It’s the other Elric, the tall one, leaning against the wall
with both hands over his cane, looking at them with polite curiosity.
Fred and George have not gotten this far in life without developing certain reflexes. We just
got caught pinballs them down a lightning fast decision tree - which really only has three
options, but still. Can they deny it? Looks like he’s been there too long for any plausible
bluffing. Can they run for it? Not really, not anywhere within the house, and it wouldn’t stop
him from telling whoever he liked and bringing Mum and Lupin and possibly even
Dumbledore down on them. The Map is not something they want to lose access to, and
Dumbledore knows about both cloak and Map and would almost certainly figure out what
they were trying to go after.
If this had been the Dumbledore of last year they wouldn’t have worried - would have
expected the Map slipped back to them later with a wink, frankly - but this Dumbledore had
forbidden anyone from contacting Harry, and left him in the muggle world with You-KnowWho on the loose and without a guard. They have no idea what this Dumbledore will do.
Fred and George reach a decision. “Bye!” Fred says, as George reaches out, grabs Alphonse
Elric and apparates out of Grimmauld Place.
Chapter End Notes
fred: when you can’t run
george: and you can’t bluff
together: increase the mayhem.
Chapter 35
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Al’s first thought is Teacher’s gonna kill me, because the correct response to anyone grabbing
your anything is not to blink at the offending hand and think oh dear. Teacher is not going to
be impressed by any excuses about being occupied with qi, either, but in the second between
Fred’s hand connecting with Al’s shoulder and the jerk of motion taking hold, the flow of the
world began to warp in place, and he could feel it taking him with it.
Stepping across the Divide was like being dropped in an ocean, and teleporting when Remus
Lupin held out a magic coffee mug had been a high-speed punch of sensation that Al could
only describe as a single packaged “unpleasant”. This is different. The ambient flow of qi
flexes, hooks into him and starts to spin - and then inverts, right in place, and Al blankly
thinks oh, toroidal, that’s interesting right as they twist out of physical space.
It’s an airless splice of nothing in between, and then they land on their feet without having
moved at all. The first thing that registers is that the entire qi landscape has changed, which is
still disorienting even though he knows to brace for it after his previous magical travel; he
has to shut his eyes briefly to sort through the input. Qi is so much heavier here: it’s like
coming down from a life of high altitude into superoxygenated sea level air.
“Wormholes,” he manages, a little breathlessly, bracing his cane on the ground. “It’s not
particle flow and reassembly. You’re opening wormholes.”
“What?”
“Nothing,” Al says, swallowing to settle his stomach. “Never mind.” He reaches up, catches
Fred’s hand just moving from his shoulder, and twists it first into a thumb joint lock - a yelp -
and then until Fred’s back is to his chest, acting as a body shield against anything his twin
might decide to do. “Why did you just teleport me, exactly?”
“Whoa!” Fred says, jerking slightly and finding it is not in his best interests to do so. Al is
very good at joint locks.
“Easy, mate,” George says, wand still out but raising his hands up in nonaggression. “Look,
it’s just for a few minutes - we’re just getting Hairy’s things, yeah? We didn’t want anyone
making a fuss and maybe stopping us.”
“Your brother told us to help Hairy out and not trust anybody,” Fred says, standing very still
with his arm twisted up and across his body. “We’re just going to grab his stuff and then take
you right back. He doesn’t even have any spare underpants right now.”
Al glances around - they’re on a street in a residential area, a row of houses on the right and a
park visible on the left. Pools of light dot the sidewalk from streetlamps; nobody in sight and
nothing in qi either. “You all seemed very interested in retrieving a map.”
“It’s a map of hog warts,” George says. “Our school. It’s dead useful. Leaving it with
muggles would be a huge waste.”
“And Hairy’s relatives are as like to toss out his things as not,” Fred says. “They don’t like
him much.”
“Hope they haven’t binned them already,” George says. “Not like he left a forwarding
address.”
“So we’re just showing up to ring the doorbell and ask for his things?” Al says skeptically.
“Doorbell? Oh, no, mate,” Fred says.
“That’d get the door slammed in our faces for sure.”
“His family’s one of those nutter sets. Hate magic like anything.”
“Religious, maybe?”
“Never asked. Plus last time we were there -”
“- Dad kinda blew up their chimney. Hope Diffindo works on the window bars.”
“You’re proposing to break in,” Al says, to clarify.
“Well, yeah,” George says. “Like we said. If we show up and say we’re here for Hairy we’d
probably get the muggle police called on us.”
This does not paint a very reassuring picture of a home life, but it’s not exactly a wholly
reliable source. “You seem very sure of this,” Al says.
“His cousin was there, when we got attacked,” Fred says. “He was walking home and ran
into us, and then the dementers showed up. He passed out -”
“- then when he woke up he thought Hairy was the one who’d attacked him. Raved a bit -”
“- told us we’d all be locked up and if Hairy showed his face at home his uncle would call the
police -”
“- and then he ran off home. So yeah. Doubt ringing the doorbell’d get us much.”
The pieces click into place, far later than they should have. The relatives live right where he
got attacked, Ed said, and I’m pretty sure they’re trying to kill him. Al immediately drags on
his qi-sense, straining outward: all the lifesigns around them big enough to be people are
stationary or making small movements within the houses, and Al can’t feel any focused intent
anywhere near them. That’s no guarantee they aren’t being watched, but he’ll have to take it
for now.
He’s gotten the situation as understood by Hairy’s teenage friends. This is not the situation as
is controlled by a vigilante group, a corrupt state and a terrorist organization all willing to use
lethal force. Al may not have been in the military but he was generally the one listening when
soldiers talked, and a situation where a target’s personal possessions - containing magical
valuables no less - are left at the target’s known address, the situation is what’s known as a
tactical opportunity.
Option one: the wizards just haven’t had time to pick up Hairy’s things. From what Al
understands the attack happened yesterday, and Hairy - the most likely target - had been
moved to the safehouse abruptly and not according to any plan. Maybe nobody’s had time to
swing by and retrieve his belongings.
Option two: the wizards realized that Hairy’s belongings could serve as a trap. Ostensibly
Hairy would want to return for them, and if the public cover story is that he had run away and
disappeared, then for anyone wanting to catch him this would be the first place to stake out.
Consequently, anyone hoping to catch such a stakeout would be staked out here too.
Safer to assume it’s option two. Safer still to turn around and go right back to the safehouse.
Problem. Al’s not sure he’ll be able to convince the twins to immediately take them back
without resorting to violence, and standing around arguing about it is a wonderful way to get
attention. Violence is no guarantee anyway: there’s two of them, and they can both teleport.
Moreover, they’d known this would be a dangerous situation, and they’d gone anyway. He is
more or less at the mercy of two superpowered teenagers that make the kind of decisions that
think nothing of charging into hostile territory with a side of spontaneous kidnapping.
Oh, bother. This is going to have to go very quickly, because if Ed comes down the stairs
looking for him - and he will - Al is going to come back to Number Twelve Grimmauld Place
dissolving into the mouth of an active volcano.
“Could you let go of my hand now?” Fred asks, very polite.
“Ah, yes,” Al says distractedly, releasing Fred to step back, tap his hands together and
alchemize a wristloop for his cane out of his left sleeve. (The embroidered leather one Mei
made for him years ago snapped last week, and since she wanted to make him a new one by
hand he, like a mildly lovestruck imbecile, hadn’t replaced it). He hasn’t used any alkahestry
yet and doesn’t plan to until he can do some quiet testing about the behavior of this side of
the Divide’s oversaturated qi, and he’s likely to need his hands free first and foremost if it
comes to a fight.
And it may very well become a fight. Hermione had been speaking about the need to conceal
themselves from any watchers posted when Al had slipped up behind them, and if this were
the exact location where two of his unkillable weapons vanished without a trace he’d be
watching it pretty damn closely and not with just a couple of rookies with binoculars, either.
“Do the disillusionment,” Al instructs, using his Honored Patient, you will obey me or
experience some exciting new fluctuations in your health voice. “You know where the house
is?”
“This way, I think,” George says, sounding relieved that Al is at least nominally on board.
“Dudley ran that way - that house there, maybe?”
“Privet drive,” Fred says, squinting up at the street sign at the intersection. “Right street, at
least. Forge -”
“Yep,” George says, and taps his wand on the crown of Fred’s skull.
Qi flexes around them, focusing through the wand. Fred shimmers, invisibility dribbling
down his body like the magic is liquid. (It isn’t. Though the toroidal formation caused by
teleportation did look like fluid dynamics, which is a thought for later.)
“Here,” George says, turning to Al and making a cautious gesture of approach. “I can do you
too.”
Al allows it, waving George forward and not grabbing for the wand when it taps lightly
against his head. “We’re going to do this fast,” Al says, as coolness trickles down the nape of
his neck in a deeply distracting tickle. “We don’t know who’s watching or what kind of
security measures are in place. We’re going to go see if that house is the correct one, and if it
is, we are not getting close until we can scout the perimeter. Understood?”
“This is a muggle neighborhood,” Fred says as George taps himself over the head and
disappears in a watery haze. “They won’t be able to put up any serious wards without it
sending all their radios and things on the fritz.”
“They had someone watching it,” George’s voice says. “Mun dung us left, though, and I
don’t think the order has enough people to keep a watch on a house Hairy’s not even in.”
“Someone might realize he left all his things, and might come back for them,” Al says
quietly. “Or if not Hairy, then someone who can be followed back to him. His family may not
even be in the house anymore. We could be walking directly into a trap.”
It feels like Fred and George glance at each other. “Nobody’ll see us if we’re careful, mate,”
Fred says.
“We’re pretty good at sneaking around.”
“Though now that you mention it -”
“- dumbell door might’ve put up some kind of protection, yeah.”
“But it’s only been a day.”
“Dunno if anyone’s had time to set a proper trap.”
“Which is why it’s best we go now.”
“Should be fine.”
Oh, fiddlesnocks. Is this what it felt like to be an adult dealing with Ed at seventeen? Given
it’s a lot like dealing with Ed now, the answer seems to be yes, probably. He feels ancient.
“We’re going to go look,” Al says steadily, channeling Colonel Hawkeye as much as he can.
They’re here; he might as well see what he can find out and report back to Ed and General
Mustang. “If the people in the house aren’t his relatives, or if there’s more of them than there
should be, we will leave, because that’s a glaring red sign that it’s a trap, and we aren’t
equipped to handle that. Are we agreed?”
“Makes sense,” George says.
“Alright, yeah,” Fred agrees.
Al supposes that’s the best he’s going to get. “Let’s go.”
They set off down the sidewalk. It’s a little strange - Al knows exactly where they are via qi,
but visually all three of them are hazy, rippling blurs of air, functionally undetectable in the
dark. There’s a faint tingle running over Al’s skin that he assumes is the spell, though nothing
is interacting with his own qi system. It’s deeply weird. Is it actually qi? Is it just the same
frequencies, so to speak, that are picked up by however human senses process qi? Because
the spell is clearly affecting his body, moving with him, but it’s not connected to him.
He can’t afford to focus too much on the qi, useful as it is, because it really is just too much
here and he’s already been unaffordably distracted from even before they landed. He’s gotten
very good at sensing, sure, but most of his experience is with exploring minute changes in the
system of a patient who is usually sitting still and in no way trying to hide or attack him. He’s
really got to step up training after this. He spars with Mei as regularly as his clinic rotations
and her class schedule allows, but both of them tend to spend more time studying and while
Mei is very good she’s not an expert in reading qi in combat.
Maybe he can request some mat time with Lan Fan when they return to Dàdū. If Ed keeps
getting sent to different countries to solve horrible soul terrorism problems, he’s going to
need it.
The twins seem pretty sure of which house it is, and they slow as they reach the neighbors’
meticulously landscaped shrubbery. Al frowns as they creep closer: there’s nothing in the
flow of qi that marks it as different from any of the others on this street, and there’s nothing
like any of the shifting, branching webs of shaped qi that moved through the wizards’
safehouse. He really wishes he’d had more time to study those; he can roughly identify magic
right now, sure, but he’s pretty certain the shaping has to do with that the ‘spell’ does and
he’d like an idea of what corresponds to what.
Right now he can pretty much only tell there’s no magic around the house. That’s something,
at least. Unless it’s hidden. But the safehouse would be a very hidden magic building, yes? So
it stands to reason that if he’s not seeing anything here that he saw there, then there’s nothing
here to see.
They’re going to have to run with it. Al concentrates. “Three people in the house,” he
murmurs. “All on the ground floor, towards the back. Do you know where his room is?”
“Upstairs,” Fred whispers. “That window there.”
The only window with bars on it. When the twins had mentioned bars previously Al had
assumed them to be a whole-house security measure, like plenty of city houses had in
Central. Al sets that aside - to the growing little pile of observations and offhand mentions
and conjecture - and evaluates the house.
They’re more or less invisible. It’ll be faster and more discreet to slip inside and go up the
stairs inside the house than climb up or alchemize any steps out here, especially with the
lightshow from any transmutation discharge. It also looks like there’s a backyard to the
house. The lifesigns of the three people in the house are clustered more to that end - in a
living room or kitchen, maybe. “Let’s go around back,” Al whispers. “We need to see through
the windows.”
They have to climb a gate to get back there - “Here, mate,” Fred and George whisper and
offer their cupped joined hands as a step-up, which Al finds charmingly polite enough to
accept - and they land with quiet thuds in short-trimmed grass. Al holds them crouched there
for a minute, listening, sensing, but there’s nothing but a quiet neighborhood and a distant
sound of cars.
They stay low as they edge up to the back patio, Al’s knees complaining as they settle close
enough to see inside. The windows are squares of yellow light in the darkness, the curtains
not yet pulled to. A woman and a man are visible through the window, sitting down at the
table and eating dinner; they match two of the presences Al can feel in qi. “Are those his
relatives?” he whispers, feeling uncomfortably voyeuristic.
“Yeah,” Fred whispers back. “Looks like. Don’t see his cousin though.”
Al can sense the third person near the other two, not really moving - out of sight of the
window but likely sat with them as well. If they’re terrorists magicked via shapeshifter potion
to pretend to be the family, they’re doing a pretty good job of sticking to their roles. “That’s
fine,” Al whispers. “I’m going to get the layout. Stay here.”
Moving slow and careful, Al steps up to the back wall of the house and presses his palm to
the bricks. Ed’s better at this sort of thing - his habit of absentmindedly fixing everything
from rotted porches and broken windows to rusted moonshine stills as he travels gives him a
lot of practice - but Al can get a rough idea of where things are.
He retreats back to the twins after a minute. “There’s one staircase, and it’s at the front,” Al
whispers. “The good news is that if we go inside through there they won’t see us. The bad
news is anyone watching the front door is going to see us come through.”
“Front window?” George suggests. “No, better make it side window. There, in the bushes.”
“I see it,” Fred whispers. “Yeah, we could do that.”
That’s not a bad idea. Al would sigh at these ready criminal minds, but Ed was a way more
unrepentant B&E artist at half their age and as accomplice Al has no leg to stand on. “This
way,” he whispers, leading the creep back to the side of the house.
The end up crouched deep in the bushes. Al considers the window. Transmuting the latch
would create a small enough flash that he can cover it with his body, but - oh, hockeysnocks,
they’re invisible. Would light just pass straight through him? No, right? The photons would
just bounce off him, the invisibility must be working on an active mirroring principle,
chameleon style. This should work fine.
Al brushes his hands together and carefully transmutes the lock out of the latch, keeping the
discharge as contained as he can make it. He waits a few seconds, then cautiously tries the sill
- only George grabs his shoulder. “Wait,” he whispers, and then, “Silencio.”
“Just in case it creaks,” Fred whispers behind them.
“Good thinking,” Al whispers back. When he tries the window, it slides up without a hitch.
He goes in first, wary of disturbing anything or otherwise triggering some kind of trap, but qi
continues to flow unchanged around him and the distant clink and murmur of dishware
remains steady. There’s what sounds like a radio on in the dining room, studio soundtrack
laughter filtering through; Al stands listening for a few more seconds, cane clasped up off the
ground in one hand, then reaches back and taps George’s arm to follow him through.
Al slides the window shut behind them but doesn’t lock it. If they end up needing a hasty exit
they’ll most likely be going through the wall, but no need to double his own work and risk
another transmutation flash being seen if they do end up leaving the way they came in. They
tiptoe to the hall and ease up the stairs; Al goes last for that and is mildly impressed at how
the twins know to stick to the outsides of the steps, putting their weight on the more
supported joists to try and avoid any creaking. This is really starting to feel like it’s not the
first time they’ve broken in somewhere - though to be fair, Al and Ed used that trick mainly
to sneak around the Rockbell house at night and eat cookies where Granny and Winry
wouldn’t find out.
Fred and George seem to know where they’re going once they reach the upstairs hall, so Al
stays behind them and focuses on reading qi. There’s still the possibility that they’ve
triggered some silent alarm and he’s going to have to arrange a high-speed exit under fire,
which he will invoice the General for. And Ed, possibly. Crinklesticks, Al’s going to have to
give these twins a good talking-to when they all get back, isn’t he. It’ll have to wait until Ed
is safely chained down and sedated, probably, but Al find he does feel inclined to give the
twins a piece of his mind. You can’t just kidnap people.
Everything seems fine so far, at least. No lifesigns are approaching the house; Al’s range is
only about twenty meters or so from his epicenter, but it’s better than nothing. Colonel
Hawkeye had explained the dementers as described by both wizards and Ed, and apparently
the effective approach is a generous application of thermite and rage; Al genuinely has no
idea what the hell that might feel like in qi or whether he’d be able to feel those things
coming at all, but he supposes he’ll get an early warning via sudden onset irrational panic and
dread anyway.
One of the lifesigns starts moving downstairs, and Al freezes, grabbing Fred and George to
still them - but it just moves back and stays put after a few seconds. Someone standing up to
get the salt shaker or something, maybe. Al lets go. Then the low murmur of voices raises in
volume briefly, then again - and then a teenage voice yells “It’s fine, mum!” before abruptly
turning into stomping - headed right for the stairs.
Someone’s coming up. The cousin. They’re invisible, though, and the corridor is just wide
enough that if they press themselves against the wall and do their best statuary impressions
they shouldn’t have any trouble. As the cousin thunders up the stairs, Al grabs George and
pulls him back sharply against the wall.
But Fred is further down the hall, and since they’re all invisible he doesn’t see them move. Al
feels him turn as the footsteps thunk rapidly up the stairs - and then Fred moves towards Al
and George: away from the door he’d been about to open, but also directly towards the stairs.
The cousin hits the landing just as Fred is crossing the hall. For a second Al thinks they’re
going to make it - the boy looks preoccupied with his own consternation and Fred is already
dodging back - but then he feels rather than sees the moment where the boy trods heavily on
Fred’s foot.
The resulting collision sends both of them careening into the wall. Fred is tall, but the cousin
must weigh two of him and sends them crashing to the floor. Given Fred is still invisible, it’s
probably that which makes the boy give a terrified, high-pitched and very loud scream.
Chapter End Notes
al: i ain’t done one dumbshit thing yet for as long as i’ve been here
al: time to earn my right to use the name Elric
Chapter 36
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The two lifesigns downstairs immediately start moving, coupled with a clatter of dishware
and a thunder of running feet. “Make us visible,” Al hisses to George, striding forward to pull
Fred upright and away from the still-screaming boy; their chances of successfully hiding are
almost none, and people can be understandably very wary around alchemy; magic is likely no
different. It’ll be easier to deal with this if they aren’t obviously up to something
spooky/against the laws of nature/illegal.
The boy scrambles to get his back against the wall and continues howling to the full extent of
his lung capacity. It occurs to Al that the fact that there’s no magic on this house means there
are no protections if someone - some thing - does come looking to start trouble. A
commotion from inside is going to draw attention if anyone is watching. He doesn’t want to
have to shut this down the fast way, but he might have to.
“Get behind me,” Al orders the twins as George hurriedly taps him with his wand; he wants
them out of the way if he has to transmute anything. The three of them wobble into the
visible spectrum as a heavyset man and a bony woman crest the stairs, the woman dropping
to her knees by her son and frantically demanding “Dudley! Dudley - Duddykins, what is it
-”
She falls silent as she catches sight of Al and the twins, her mouth dropping open as her
husband’s face goes mottled and his fists clench in horror, disgust, shock. “You!”
“Hello!” Al says to preempt whatever that’s going to be, giving them a friendly,
nonthreatening wave. “We’re very sorry for the commotion - we’re just here to pick up your
nephew’s things and didn’t want to disturb you!”
The family gapes like they’re a trio of tentacle-thrashing aliens that have just come busting
out of their linen closet - which, in some ways, they are. The cousin’s screams have subsided
into gasping, his eyes almost perfectly round as he stares. Al smiles reassuringly at him.
“Give us just a few moments and we’ll be out of your hair.”
“You - you - you’re them,” the uncle sputters, different parts of his face starting to turn
different colors in a way that speaks to a possible heart condition. “What did you do to my
son!”
“Nothing!” Fred exclaims. “He ran into me.”
Al doesn’t point out that they’re technically home invaders because he’s supposed to be
arguing the opposite end of that equation, and anyway the uncle is starting to look apoplectic.
“My arse! You assaulted him, chased him all the way from the park to the house - he saw you
- we know what you did to him with your drugs, your perversions -”
“Oh, right, the ton tongue toffee,” George says casually. He and his brother are utterly
unconcerned when faced by a furious grown man twice their size; then again, why should
they be? They can teleport at will and have what are essentially stick-shaped multi-purpose
guns. “His own fault for slurping up anything he finds on the ground.”
The uncle’s eyes bulge. “Ah, that reminds me,” Al says, holding an arm out to shut George
up and take the reins of the situation before things go even more pineapple-shaped. “While
we’re here, do you think you could answer a few questions regarding your nephew’s medical
records?”
That successfully derails things at least a little. “What?”
“Anything you have will do,” Al says politely. “Your nephew has some medical procedures
coming up. Documentation of any allergies or pre-existing conditions would be ideal, but
we’re looking to build a comprehensive profile so the more the better.”
“How should we know? His - his magic keepers should be dealing with all of that!” the aunt
bursts out.
Al glances at Fred and George. “Ah… is the medical stewardship situation different here? I
assumed next of kin would have the primary responsibility, especially if the individual is
underage.”
“Uh… dunno,” George hazards, also looking a little thrown by Al’s topic. “Hairy prob’ly
wouldn’t have told them anything that happened at hog warts, but…”
“Usually it’s your parents that take you to the healers, yeah,” Fred says.
“I see,” Al says, turning his gaze back on the aunt and uncle, who are now staring at them
like they’re escaped zoo tigers that showed up in their upstairs hall and started discussing
accounting policy. “No medical records of his here whatsoever?”
“Worried whether he’s had his shots?” the uncle snarls. His hands are shaking. “The normal
schools took care of that, don’t you worry. God alone knows what he’s done at that place -”
“Are you one of their - are you a doctor? Can you undo this?” the aunt demands, gripping
hard at her son’s shoulders. “Tell me what they’ve done to him. Tell me.”
Right. Her nephew had disappeared yesterday. The uncle is clearly not a fan, but perhaps her
outlook is different. Al can’t exactly in full honesty tell her that he’s safe, but he isn’t exactly
in immediate physical danger. “He’s in a secure location -”
“Not him! Dudley!” She thrusts her son forward, or at least as much as is possible when he’s
trying to meld with the wall and weighs three times what she does. “What did they do to
him?”
Right. Al looks closer; the boy looks terrified, yes, but not especially ill. Looks can be
deceiving, however, and the wizards had said that their mind control spells didn’t leave a
trace. Between memory erasure and overriding someone’s will there could be any number of
invisible damages done to him. “Is there something wrong?”
“He was assaulted!” she says shrilly. “He was beaten unconscious, dragged in the street, god
alone knows what they did to him while he was defenseless -”
“Are you referring to the incident yesterday?” Al tries. He’s pretty sure Ed would’ve
mentioned beating someone unconscious and dragging them in the streets, especially if it was
a minor, but then again it had been a fairly unusual encounter and Ed might not have tracked
everything that was going on. Is there a way to implant false memories? Had someone done
that to them, to overwrite the memory of an attack by something supernatural?
“Of bloody course yesterday!” the uncle erupts, jabbing a finger at the twins. “Those two
were there, with the rest of their gang -” A thought seems to occur to him. “Dudley - was that
one - was he involved too?”
“Ah, no,” Al says with finality before this can turn into another case of being mistaken for his
brother. “I was out of the country at the time. But I did get called in to consult on the
problem.” He assesses the way the aunt is clutching her son; well, this will be as good a
distraction as any. “I can take a look if you like,” he offers, drawing his notepad out of his
pants pocket. “Fred, George, go and fetch Hairy’s things.”
The twins don’t need telling twice, peeling off straight for a room down the hall behind Al,
but the uncle makes an aborted jerk forwards. “Where do you think you’re going!" He
exclaims, clearly caught between haranguing the twins and staying between Al and his wife
and son. “Get back here - you can’t just -”
“You’re talking to me right now,” Al says, stepping forward, brooking no argument. “What
are your son's symptoms?”
The uncle actually shies back at Al’s step, a jerk like a spooked horse, but the aunt, at least,
knows her priorities. “They did something to him,” she insists, once again trying to drag her
son forward. “He came home inconsolable, he’d been unconscious, he was all scraped up, he
didn’t eat a thing all night and all day -”
That sounds like someone had fainted and fallen and had the standard reaction to being
assaulted, i.e. anxiety and paranoia and general upset. If he’d gone into shock on the scene Ed
would’ve mentioned it, because that he at least knows how to recognize and treat for, and this
boy seemed to be moving around and responding normally until he ran into an invisible
wizard.
Still, no need to be sloppy. “How’s your pulse?” Al asks the boy directly, focusing a bit to get
as much of a read on his qi as he can from over here. “Any vision problems? Nausea,
headache?”
The boy looks fairly taken aback to be addressed in the doctor voice, and, in the interests of
sparing them all some hogphooey, not the one Al uses for little kids, either. His qi looks fine;
he just feels like a normal lifesign and his internal circulation seems to be in order, with none
of the flow Al can identify as magic on him.
After a second the boy shakes his head. “Well, if you experience any of that, or any
irregularities in your heartbeat, go to the hospital right away,” Al instructs. “I don’t see any
magic on you, so you should be alright. Rest up, drink lots of water and try to avoid stress for
the next two to three weeks.”
Neither aunt nor cousin look like they expected this to be his response. Well, they do think
he’s a wizard, so perhaps they were anticipating a wave of a wand and one of their
untranslatable magical voice commands. Al would honestly like a closer look at the boy, if
only to see if a narrow scan of his qi system would pick up any traces of memory tampering
or mind magic, but the way they’re all still huddled like a pack of enraged lemmings faced
with a fox tells him he’s unlikely to be welcome.
He shouldn’t even be here anyway, and he’s once more acutely aware of the clock ticking
down on Ed’s personal brand of pipe bomb. Might as well get what he can. “As for your
nephew’s records -”
The uncle reaches the end of whatever complex mental pilgrimage he was on that allowed
him to keep silent. “We don’t have any of that! Talk to his school!”
Well. Al had his suspicions, given what the twins told him, but this encounter is more or less
proof. “Then you can answer my questions verbally,” he tells them steadily. “To the best of
your ability. Tell me, does your nephew have any allergies?”
“Allergies?”
This time it’s the boy, still wall-eyed with fear but now shading fast into incredulous and
angry that his potential medical emergency has been usurped by his cousin’s paperwork.
“You broke into our house! You were invisible! And now you want to talk about - about his
allergies -”
“Yes,” Al says, tone unchanging, and fixes his gaze on the aunt. “Does he have any allergies?
Yes or no.”
“No,” the aunt says, leaning in front of her son. “No, no allergies. No, nothing, he - he wears
glasses,” she says rapidly. “We don’t have his prescription, he must’ve taken it with him to
his school.”
“Has he had any surgeries?”
“No surgeries,” she says immediately; she seems to be catching on that giving him as much
information as possible will make this go faster and get them out of her house. “He had the
chicken pox when Dudley did, at four, the doctor looked at them together. Nothing else. The
schools require all the vaccinations, you can’t attend without them,” she adds stiffly,
defensively, like Al had expressed doubt.
Another quiet mental note on the pile of observations. “No other infections?” Al asks. He
doesn’t know what ‘chicken pox’ refers to but it sounds common enough that he should be
able to get a symptom description from one of the wizards later on. “Any blood transfusions?
Serious injuries? Broken bones?”
“No,” the aunt says, still stiff. “No, no broken bones.”
“Any family history of immune system disorders?”
“No - no, nothing like that.”
Al writes it down. “I understand his parents are dead,” he says. “How long has he been living
with you?”
The aunt’s eyes dart briefly to her son. “Since he was one,” she says, clipped. “Or
thereabouts. He’s a month younger than Dudley.”
“He’s been off at that school of his since he was eleven,” the uncle says harshly. “Nine
months out of the year. You want to know what he gets up to, you ask them.”
The aunt’s gaze skitters away from Al, to the floor. Her grip tightens further on her son.
As part of his qualifications to be admitted to the Imperial House, Al spent thirteen months
with Master Yunxian as one of three medical assistants in her traveling clinic. Most of
western Xing is heavily mountainous, making railways rare outside of the largest cities, and
their freight transport is usually either by oxtrain or boat. Settlements in the mountains tended
to be small, and unlike in the lowlands clans tended to band together for survival instead of
claiming separate and distinct territories. A few of the most populous villages had someone
with some medical training, maybe a herbalist or an alkahestrist that didn’t want to leave
home, but for many of the settlements the traveling clinic was the only formal medical care
they received in months.
Thank goodness almost everywhere had at least one midwife, and that Master Yunxian went
out of her way to build good relations with whoever was the local healer or equivalent. A big
chunk of the clinic’s work ended up being vaccination and education, and Master Yunxian
tended to divvy up their roles according to demographic appeal - Lai and Jia to the young
women, Jinhui to the working men, herself to the elders. And despite having the worst
Xingese out of the four of them and having no familiarity with regional dialects whatsoever,
Al was usually directed to working with the children - they loved his bright hair, didn’t mind
holding still for a checkup if it meant more time to stare at this odd-looking foreigner, and
kids wouldn’t be using long or complicated words to describe their medical problems
anyway.
Ed’s better with kids by nature - the inexhaustible energy, willingness to dangle them upside
down by the ankle and fourth-grade sense of humor make him well suited - but Al learned
quick. He is now one hundred percent confident in his ability to wrangle even the most
egregiously violent of toddlers into a successful vaccination without hurting either himself or
the child. He can accept flowers or shiny rocks or rice cakes from furiously blushing and/or
giggling preteens with minimum embarrassment on either side, and he can burp, change and
feed babies like a pro. And as he got better, Master Yunxian started bringing him to the more
complicated cases.
There are no state child services in rural Xing. If both a child’s parents are dead, they become
a ward of their clan, staying with whatever immediate family has the room. If the entire clan
is gone, the children go to whoever will take them. It’s a system that works, more or less. But
when it doesn’t work, there is very, very little recourse.
By now, Al can recognize the signs, though in this particular case it’d be hard not to. This
isn’t hearsay from adolescent wizards or whatever Ed inferred; this is behavior directly from
the source, and it’s not subtle.
Plausibly deniable, though. To press further now is to get them to start lying.
“No further questions,” Al says, closing his notebook.
The aunt’s eyes dart up to him again. “What are you going to do?”
“Leave,” Al says. He knows he’s got no expression on his face right now; he doesn’t bother
to ameliorate. “Unless, of course, you would like to share any other information.”
“No,” the aunt says quickly. “That’s it, that’s everything -”
“Leave?” the uncle exclaims, having found his steam again. “After just breaking in like
this?”
“All done!” George says brightly, popping back into the hallway with his brother on his
heels; their pockets are bulging. “Don’t worry, we didn’t break anything.”
“Those bars on the window did mysteriously just fall off, though.”
“Yeah, it was dead weird, how they just popped off like that -”
“- and now we’ll be popping off too.”
They flank Al, grinning at the family. Al nods at them; he finds he is not inclined to bow.
“Thank you for your cooperation,” he says, getting a grip on his cane, holding out his
forearm to Fred and preparing himself to get sucked down the toroidal qi tube ripping
through the very fabric of reality again. “Let’s go.”
Chapter End Notes
just wanted to take the time to say, in one gulp of breath inbetween hoovering up inchthick coke lines, that if you’ve commented ever even once on this fic then you’re my
spouse now and we are married and i will defend you with an axe in mortal combat
Chapter 37
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
They all stare at where the bigger Elric now isn’t.
“How did he sneak up on us?” Ginny hisses.
“I don’t know! He was just there!” Hermione says frantically.
“And now Fred and George have gone and taken him who the hell knows where!” Ron says.
“Don’t be dense, they took him to the house!” Ginny says. “If they left him here he’d tell, so
the fastest way to deal with it was take him with them - he can’t apparate, he knows he’d
have to do what they say to get brought back home.”
“So now he’s going to tell after they get back?” Ron demands. “What the hell are we going to
say? Don’t be a grass or we’ll apparate you somewhere nasty?”
“We’ll convince him,” Hermione says, sounding mostly like she’s trying to convince herself.
“I’m sure we can work something out - Alphonse seemed very reasonable -”
“Al? Found us a decent room,” Elric’s voice calls down the stairs. All of them freeze.
“Though maybe we want ground floor, dunno that we want to work directly on wood - Al?”
Harry stares at Hermione, who’s glaring at Ron, who’s alternating between staring up, glaring
back and staring at Harry. “Oh, great,” Ginny says, faintly. “Nice going, Gred, Forge. Left us
to deal with the un reasonable one.”
“Al?” Heavy booted footsteps start thumping down the stairs. As one they all quit staring to
exchange wide-eyed glances. What do we do? Hermione’s eyes scream. Harry frantically
looks around - maybe they can run for it? But Elric would hear them. They’re stuck in this
house and it’s not all that big, and Elric does not seem like the kind of person to stand by
when someone runs away from him. He doesn’t look slow, either.
"Al? What the hell’s taking so lo...”
Elric rounds the stairs and stops. He stares at their frozen poses. He does not look like he
likes what he sees.
“Elric!” Hermione says, her voice squeaking slightly. “Hello!”
“I really,” Elric says, in a slow, dangerous tone, “do not like the looks on your faces.”
“Well, back at you, mate,” Ron says, offended.
Elric doesn’t even glance at him. “Where’s Al.”
“In the bathroom?” Ginny tries.
“Try again.”
“He’ll be right back!” Hermione says quickly. “They just - I mean, he -”
“What did you do to my brother?”
“He wanted to know about apparating,” Harry blurts.
“Right!” Ginny says immediately. “So he - asked Fred and George to show him! They’ll be
right back.”
“Back from where,” Elric says, in a voice that indicates he’s not only not buying it but
overturning the merchandise tables and setting fire to the shop. His hands are flexing like he
wants nothing more than to choke Ginny unconscious, and not for the first time Harry can’t
help but be aware that even though they’re the same height Elric’s built like an ox. “They
could’ve teleported inside the house for a demonstration. Where did they take him?”
“It was for me!” Harry snaps, stepping forward and clenching his own fist around his wand.
“Leave her alone.”
“For you,” Elric says, leveling his burning yellow stare on Harry. “What the fuck are they
doing for you, exactly?”
“They’re getting my things,” Harry says tightly.
“Your things,” Elric repeats. “And Al just fuckin’ volunteered? For that?”
“We... were surprised too?” Ron tries, but Elric’s face spasms oddly.
“You’re telling me,” he says, in a voice that starts out strangely distant but rapidly, rapidly
gets harsher and louder, “that your brothers, took my brother, and they all went back to the
scene of the attack. Your fucking house. Which is one hundred percent, definitely under
surveillance, and the first place the fucking terrorists would go to TAKE HOSTAGES -”
“Stupefy!”
Elric’s eyes roll back and he crumples to the floor.
“Hermione!” Ron exclaims.
“He was going to tell!” she says, slightly higher-pitched than normal. Her eyes are huge and
her wand is still pointed straight at Elric. “Or - or do something - They’ll be back in just a
few minutes, we’ll just - tell him it was all a big misunderstanding -”
“Tell Elric that? Fred and George kidnapped his brother! The brother he’s mad as pants
about! What’re we gonna say when they get back?” Ron waves wildly at Elric’s prone form.
“And when he wakes up? What then?”
“Memory charm him?” Ginny says.
Hermione sucks in a breath. “I don’t know how,” she says. “No, we can’t, a botched
Obliviate is dangerous. We could do serious damage - remember what happened to
Lockhart?”
“You’re worried about damaging him? You just dropped him like a sack of dungbombs!”
“I panicked!” Hermione snaps. “He was going to get his officers involved, and they’d get
your parents, and then the cloak and the Map would get confiscated -”
“So you stunned him?”
“That’s better than memory charming him! What will the rest of his people say when he
wakes up missing the last twenty minutes?”
“At least Stupefy doesn’t do anything permanent,” Ginny agrees, nodding. “Well. Not if you
land on something soft.”
“We’ll say it was an accident,” Hermione says decisively. “Accidental magic, we didn’t mean
it, we’re very sorry and it won’t happen again -”
Ron gapes at her. “You think he’s not going to remember you pointing your wand at him and
saying aaAAAARGH -”
“Stupefy!”
Elric, who had stirred and immediately grabbed Ron’s leg, slumps back again. Ginny slowly
lowers her wand; it’s her turn to look kind of bug-eyed. “That was fast,” she says, breathing a
little harder than usual. “Did that seem fast to you? A stunner usually lasts longer than that
-”
“That’s what you’re worried about?” Ron demands, but he’s backing away from Elric’s
sprawled out arm. “Now we’ve stunned him twice! He’ll never believe that’s an accident!
And neither will Mum!”
“What if we pretend we all got stunned?” Ginny says.
“What? By who?” Ron demands.
“Kreacher?”
“Ginny!” Hermione snaps.
“You have a better idea? Look, they keep warning us the house is full of cursed things - we
find some piece of junk in one of these rooms, drop it next to us and pretend we all passed
out.”
Hermione is nodding. “I can cast Somnium on us, then myself, so we wake up naturally.
That’ll make it more convincing.”
“What if they do Priori Incantatem?” Harry has to say. “That’ll show the last spell the wand
cast. If they do it they’ll know we stunned him.”
“Not if we find a cursed enough object,” Ginny says determinedly. “They won’t think a
stunner was involved at all, they won’t check our wands -”
Harry feels his legs go out from under him, struck by something hard, and it’s only after he
tumbles into Ginny and lands heavily on his side does he realize that it was Elric - Elric’s leg,
swept out in a scything kick, and Harry doesn’t see more than a blur of blond and black
before there’s a clap and the floor is writhing. Harry’s wrenched flat onto his back by living
floorboards, circling his arms and legs and pinning him down, and he hears Hermione cry out
in shock and Ron shout “Hey!” as Ginny’s also dragged past his field of vision, limbs
sinking into the wood.
“You little fuckers,” Elric grinds, rolling to his feet and towering above Harry. “That’s
fucking it. I’m done.” And he goes straight for Ron.
Harry struggles madly, but the wood around him is cinched tight. His wand is in his jeans; the
most he can do is buck up with his hips with his calves and forearms trapped inside the floor.
If only his wand was in his hand - wasn’t Ginny’s? - Hermione gasps - he can’t see what Elric
is doing -
“Hey!” Ron shouts, outraged. “You can’t - that’s mine! Give it back!”
“Like fuck,” Elric snaps, and then he’s crouching over Harry, two wands - Ron and
Hermione’s wands - in his grip. Harry tries to thrash away, but Elric just plants an iron hand
on his stomach and effortlessly plucks the wand from his jeans. “Ginny!” Harry shouts.
“Reducto!” Ginny answers, and Harry hears wood crack.
“Nice try,” Elric says derisively, out of Harry’s sight again, and then there’s the crackling
sound of his wandless transfiguration. Ginny grunts and Elric steps back into Harry’s sight;
he’s got four wands in his hand now.
Ginny sounds like she’s trying to break free of her wood shackles, and also furious. “You
can’t just take our wands!”
“Fucking watch me ,” Elric snarls, not even looking at them. There’s another blue crackle as
he smacks the four wands lengthwise against one of his forearm gauntlets, and Harry sees the
metal ripple and absorb them without a trace. “These are mine now. You get them back when
I fucking feel like it, you little psychopaths . Are you all fucking crazy? Sending your
brothers back to that house? The first thing I’d do is put up every fuckin’ one of those antiteleportation wards in the world and then booby-trap the fuck out of everything. Your brothers
might be fucking stuck there, if they haven’t already fucking teleported their way into a
fucking hostage situation! And they took MY brother with them. ”
Elric slams the side of his fist into the wall - oddly the least threatening thing he’s done; it’s
like physical punctuation rather than any attempt to intimidate, and Harry’s strangely
reminded more of Hermione tossing her hair than any of Dudley’s gang’s posturing - and
roars “Mustang!”
No one yells back, but there are some distant noises that might be people moving. Elric claps
his hands together and presses one to the wall - and the wood comes alive again, slithering
off Harry and leaving him free to scramble to his feet. He doesn’t know what they’re going to
do - especially since what he said about the Dursleys’ house made a horrible kind of sense.
Why wouldn’t Death Eaters set up anti-apparition wards and try to trap anyone who came by?
It’d be a good way to kidnap someone from the Order...
The second the wood’s off her Ginny jumps up next to Harry, fists clenched. “You took our
wands!”
Elric’s eyes flick over her the way Aunt Petunia’s flick over small yappy dogs. “What
wands?” he says flatly.
“Wh - our wands!” Ron exclaims, pointing with one arm and the other pulling Hermione to
stand. “You transfigured them into your - your arm thing!”
“What arm thing?” Elric says, folding his arms so that the gauntlets gleam dully across his
chest, pointedly obvious.
Ron’s mouth opens and shuts once; Hermione next to him also looks incredulous, and it
doesn’t look like they know what to do in the face of the blatant denial. Frankly Harry
doesn’t either. “They’re right there!” Ron tries, waving his arms. “They’re our wands.”
“You never had any wands,” Elric says, taking a sharp step forward, voice deadly. “Because
if you did, then you used them to attack me. Do you want that to have happened?” He spreads
his arms again, showman-style, gesturing at the corridor. "Doesn’t look to me like there was a
fight here. Was there?”
“You just don’t want to tell your soldier friends a bunch of kids knocked you out,” Harry
snaps, fed up.
In two steps Elric is suddenly right there, inches from Harry’s face, and all Harry can see is
sixty kinds of rage in blond and brown and gold. “If I tell Mustang you knocked me out, you
become a threat,” Elric says venomously, eyes glittering. “You’re already up to your neck
because of kidnapping my brother. You want to tell him what else you did? Attacked one of
his men? You don’t want to make this worse for yourselves. You’re going to help us get Al
back, and you’re going to be grateful you don’t have your little magic sticks, because
assaulting me makes you a hostile. His team eliminates hostiles. Not unarmed civilians. Stay
fucking unarmed.”
“All metal?”
That’s the Snape-Lockhart officer’s voice. The Unplottables are coming down the stairs.
“Yeah, get down here,” Elric replies, not taking his eyes off Harry. “We got a motherfucking
situation.”
“Another one?” Chaos’s voice comes, half joking half weary.
“Yeah another one. Those fuckin’ twins just kidnapped Al.”
That gets everyone downstairs in a hurry. “What happened?” the Lockhart-Snape man says
sharply, gaze flicking over all of them in turn; the blonde woman with the dead eyes has her
hand hovering by one of her holsters. Elric opens his mouth, snarl in place, just as with a
crack Fred and George appear right in the middle of the hall, Alphonse between them.
Elric immediately dodges towards them. “That happened - Al, grab ‘em -”
And suddenly Alphonse has Fred and George by the wrists of their wand arms, and Elric is
right there to yank the wands out of their hands and skip back before they can do more than
exclaim in surprise. And Alphonse is now a good few feet away too, cane hanging off his
wrist, ignoring the twins’ simultaneous “Hey!”
“Hello, everyone,” he says. “I’m fine, brother, nothing happened. General, I believe I have a
bit of a surprise report for you?”
Chapter End Notes
Harry: Snape-Lockhart? Snockhart? Lape? Snart?
Chapter 38
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“I... see,” Roy says, gaze jumping from Edward’s hands - full of confiscated wands - to
Alphonse - pointedly out of arm’s reach of the twins - to the rest of the children, who are all
in a hostile little huddle angled mostly at Edward, though half are now gaping fairly
singlemindedly at Alphonse as well. “And where exactly did you just return from?” Roy
asks, trying to figure out just what the hell he’s walked into that has managed to happen in
the ten minutes between Edward leaving the room and bellowing his name from downstairs.
He wishes he could be more surprised.
“His relatives’ house,” Alphonse says, gesturing to Hairy. “They wanted to fetch some of his
things, which included items they didn’t want their adults knowing about. I walked in on
their… planning session, and got - involved.”
“Stop getting kidnapped,” Ed stresses, clapping - and pushing the two wands in his hand
against one of his bracers, sealing them into the steel. “You’re not fourteen anymore, and it
wasn’t cute then either -”
“Oi! Elric! That’s our wands!”
“Not anymore,” Edward hisses at the twins. “Now you two are gonna apologize, or I’ll
bounce your faces off this wall twice for every fifteen seconds Al was gone, and you’d best
believe I can do that fucking math -”
“Brother, they’re kids,” Alphonse says reproachfully.
“And? They want to play in the big leagues and kidnap people, they can go ahead and get
what they’re asking for -”
Roy should probably end this - or at least get it out of the godsdamn stairwell - before it
spirals even further. Exclamations along the lines of “what the hell?” or “it was only ten
minutes,” or even “kidnapped? By kids?” are going to be entirely unhelpful here, no matter
how much the situation might demand them. “Alphonse,” he says, cutting over Edward’s
building steam. “You had something to report?”
Alphonse looks directly at him, gaze serious - then his eyes flick away to the children, to
Hairy, almost imperceptibly. “There is no qi on that house,” he says carefully. “Nothing like
what Ed and I see here.” He gestures slightly at one of the empty picture frames on the wall.
“We did not have any difficulties entering or leaving.”
Alphonse can’t detect any magic on the house they just visited, which means there is none.
No protections like this house has. And if two teenage wizards could get in, anyone can.
“Ohhhh that is not good,” Maes says into the ensuing silence.
Roy had been fairly certain that Edward would punch a wizard by the time the day was out,
and it would probably be all Roy could do to ensure it looked if not accidental then at least
justified. He’d been resigned to it. Now it looks like he’s going to have to get resigned to
punching some wizards himself. This is unfortunate, because Roy doesn’t like punching and
in any case Edward hits a lot harder. “Were you seen?”
“Only by the family,” Alphonse says carefully. “We had a brief conversation. I don’t think
they’ll decide to call the police.” Or otherwise alert anyone as to what happened.
“No?” Maes says. “I’m assuming you didn’t get in by ringing the doorbell.”
Alphonse half-smiles, grim. “They’re terrified of wizards.”
Riza shifts beside Roy in the way that means he might have to get in line in regards to the
matter of punching. Make trouble and you’ll forget this ever happened, along with who
knows what else - oh yes, that’s quite the threat to be living under. And this situation is now
time-sensitive to boot, because even if Alphonse didn’t notice any watchers doesn’t mean
there weren’t any, and if there were, he just proved to them that invading that house is
essentially consequence-free.
“Well!” Maes says, icy-bright. “Looks like we’re going to have some conversations.”
Which will be Roy explaining to the wizards what hostages are, because apparently they have
no godsforsaken fucking clue. Telling them that will entail explaining that his medical
specialist just experienced a mild case of abduction at the hands of two seventeen year olds,
and while Roy is unfortunately somewhat of an expert on stupidly dangerous teenagers, even
Alphonse hadn’t been able to teleport, and clearly this bunch cannot be left unsupervised for
even ten minutes before they’re committing felonies.
“Can you give us our wands back?” one of the twins says, in a cordial, controlled sort of tone
that entirely fails to read the room.
Edward already spends most of his time looking bored and hostile, but the aggressively
apathetic look he turns on those two is really something else. “What wands?”
“You can’t just keep saying that,” the redheaded possessed girl snaps. “You’re going to have
to give them back sometime!”
“Why?” Edward says mockingly. “So you can attack me again? Or maybe my brother? They
can knock you out in one hit, by the way, they just point the stick and say the word and down
you go,” he adds in Roy’s direction. “Instant blackout, ask me how I know.”
“They knocked you out?” Havoc says incredulously. Roy can’t help but feel some alarm
himself; Edward has a skull like a cinderblock, reflexes like a cobra and a pain tolerance
that’s not impressive so much as it is ridiculous: blacking him out is an achievement.
“You said you weren’t going to say anything about that!” one of the redhead boys says
accusingly, as if that is the biggest problem here.
“Well, sure, I wasn’t gonna ,” Edward says in his most annoying I’m Being Reasonable And
You’re A Capering Baboon voice. “But then I thought, hey, if you did it to me, what’s
stopping you from getting someone else with that shit? What’s stopping some other wizard
from doing it? So yeah, they point one of these things your way, duck.”
“But you can’t just keep our wands,” the brown girl says, eyes darting to Roy. “We need them
for school.”
Cute. Roy was not in a good mood to start with, and now all he has left of his better nature is
a big shovel and a deep urge to spread it around. He is generally against armed children in
principle and right now even more against arming these wizard children in specific, because
all of them need to be safely shackled in some basement and not running around completely
loose in this joke of a vigilante ‘safehouse’. “Fullmetal can eat them for all I care,” Roy says,
smiling very sweet. The girl’s eyes go round. “So he may as well take custody for the time
being. Now we’re all going to go downstairs and have a little chat about what just happened.
Not you,” he adds, looking directly at Hairy. “Alphonse, you wanted to have a closer look.
Now is a good time.”
“Certainly,” Alphonse says, beckoning to Hairy. “I have a few questions about your medical
history that I hope you can answer for me.”
“Now?” Hairy says, almost physically shying back.
“No time like the present,” Alphonse says brightly, then, not looking at Ed, “You have other
things to do, brother, go with the General.”
Ed looks briefly mutinous, but visibly realizes he’s defanged the children as much as they’re
going to get by taking their wands and settles slightly. “Third floor, second room to the right
off the staircase,” he grunts. “Was gonna use it for lab space. There’s chairs.”
“We’ll be in there, then,” Alphonse says. “Is there a guardian or other adult you’d like in the
room with you?” he adds to Hairy politely. “You’re a minor and this will technically qualify
as a medical appointment.”
Hairy does hostile just well as Edward does, though his is baffled rather than bored and he
keeps glancing from Alphonse to Roy to Edward and back again. Edward snorts.
“Amestrisan medical privacy law doesn’t have jurisdiction in wizard world, Al.”
“Still,” Alphonse says serenely. “It’s the right thing to do.”
“Serious,” the brown girl says rapidly when Hairy still doesn’t answer, stepping closer to
him. “Take serious.”
Hairy’s jaw clenches, not looking away from them. “What’s qi?” he says tightly.
“Alphonse will explain,” Roy says, straightening his gloves and walking forward, finished
with the conversation. “We will fetch Black for you.”
“Downstairs now, everyone, let’s go,” Maes carols, catching up everyone in his usual
inescapable manic forcefield and ushering them down the stairs; Edward looks like he might
duck under Maes’ arm for a second, so Roy says “Fullmetal, get the convict for your
brother,” which gets him to stomp along and leave Hairy with Alphonse behind.
Leak taken care of. Time to figure out if the boy’s relatives are intentionally being used as
bait, or if this is just one more of those charming little oversights that just happen around
these parts. Roy is genuinely starting to wonder exactly how much is genuine civilian
inexperience and cultural blind spots and what is, at best, deliberate strategic writeoffs. Is the
boy’s family merely considered expendable? These wizards put one flighty guard on a
principal target, and they claim they haven’t gone on the offensive because they fear civilian
casualties in reprisal - and then they do not put any protections whatsoever on what are the
most likely targets of retribution for Hairy’s failed assassination in the park.
Threatening someone’s family is arguably the most effective way to get someone to stop,
come out of hiding, turn themselves in. The fact that the target is a minor not in charge of his
own movements who doesn’t seem at all close to his relatives does not change the fact that
this entire situation is just begging for something to go wrong. The children currently
elbowing and hissing to each other in Roy’s wake have just proven that things are already
going wrong, in the stupidest ways possible, as is only natural when teenagers are introduced
to any scenario. It’s not safe to leave this brat posse unsupervised but apparently even more
unsafe to do the supervising, which is why Alphonse is the only one being left alone with one
of them. He may not be two and a half meters of immortal steel anymore but he’s the only
one who can sense qi - and thus any magic, as well anyone trying to sneak up and catch him
by surprise.
And the convict wants to remain in the safehouse so as not to get arrested, so he has a vested
interest in not teleporting off anywhere, with Alphonse or no. Roy personally does not see
how he would get caught if the primary means of tracking someone is by their wand - if he
could teleport, he’d be laughing in policemen’s faces as he popped in and out of their squad
cars and station breakrooms - but as evidenced by the children’s reactions, they’re very
deeply attached to the little sticks. Dependent, even.
Fullmetal has not failed to notice. Good.
And right in the main hall, just downstairs, is a familiar stocky, short-haired figure that must
have just arrived, judging by how Albus is sweeping up from the opposite direction. “Madam
Bones,” Roy says as he steps off the stairs and in between them, shaping his face into
something moderately less vindictive. “How good to have you join us. Your timing is
impeccable, as a matter of fact - we were just about to discuss security measures and why it
seems as though the Potter boy’s immediate family doesn’t have any.”
Chapter End Notes
ed: u dont like arming kids, huh. That’s a thing u disapprove of, huh
roy: firstly, i didn’t weaponize you, you were like that when i got there. Secondly, when
we met you were pretty thoroughly disar-
[technical difficulties screen]
Chapter 39
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Bones narrows her eyes very slightly. “The muggles?” She turns to Albus. “You said you had
people watching the house.”
Roy will say this for Bones: she doesn’t waste time and she’s so far taken anything in stride.
And while she may defer to Albus, that doesn’t stop her from acting suspicious as hell, about
everyone, all of the time. “What brought this on?” she asks Roy, not waiting for Albus to
answer in true police fashion. “Did something happen to them?”
“Your magical children are teleporters,” Roy says blandly, gesturing at the gaggle of
teenagers now frozen mostly on the stairs. “They decided to take a little field trip and bring
along one of their new friends, whether he liked it or not. Since this new friend happened to
be my contractor, he assessed the house - Potter’s house - and found it entirely lacking in
security while the twins collected Potter’s belongings. He didn’t find any protections
whatsoever, in fact, as evidenced by two seventeen year olds breaking in. Given that Potter is
considered a valuable target by our enemies, it seems to me that hiding him while leaving his
family undefended is somewhat of an oversight.”
“Who is watching the house right now, Albus,” Bones says tersely, still watching Roy.
“Arabella fig,” Albus says, which makes Bones swivel to him incredulously.
“The Squib?”
“She is not watched in turn by any in the ministry, and blends seamlessly among muggles,”
Albus says.
Bones now sports a look that might be called horrified on a less severe face. “Albus. She
can’t cast a patronus.”
“And has not needed to, in all the years she lived in the house neighboring Hairy’s, until
now,” Albus says.
“Excuse me,” Maes says. “Squib?”
“A witch or wizard who doesn’t have enough magic to cast,” Bones says, still staring at
Albus with an increasingly challenging expression. “Many of them don’t even have wands.”
“Really!” Maes looks like he’s about to start laughing and never stop, which is never a good
look to see on your Intelligence officer, and Riza’s starting to take on the slightly glazed
expression that means she’s having some fairly graphic fantasies about pistol whipping. Roy
personally finds that he is, at this point, wholly done; he doesn’t care what Albus’s goals or
motivations any longer: what matters is that if things continue like this someone’s going to
get killed.
“This is perhaps not a conversation for the hallway,” he says, listening for where the murmur
of voices down the hall is coming from and then heading for it. This needs an audience. “We
need to speak to Black as well.”
“And these kids need to go back to their fuckin’ playpen,” Edward growls, snapping his
fingers at the teenagers to harry them forward. “You got toddler leashes or something? How
the fuck do you keep ‘em from zapping off when you don’t want them to?”
“That is a question for their parents,” Bones says crisply at Roy’s shoulder, which makes at
least one of the children swallow audibly. “Why Black?”
“He is the adult requested by Potter to be present during his medical evaluation,” Roy says.
Bones is following him - a good start - and Albus is following her, though he has less of a
choice with Maes and Edward pushing everyone via sheer psychic pressure from behind. “I
understand they’re close.”
“Medical evaluation?” Bones says.
The door to the kitchen takes that moment to spring open, Roy still half a meter away, and
once again there’s no one near it on the opposite side; Molly and her husband and Remus are
there by the table, the convict and a redheaded man with a ponytail as well, and they all turn
in surprise. Roy briefly raises a hand in greeting and strides through, because so far the doors
themselves haven’t been traps and he can’t deny it’s created an entrance for him.
“Knock it off, housie,” Edward growls as he passes through, rapping his knuckles once on the
doorframe. “I’m not pissed at you. Though keep this shit up and I will be. You, psycho,” he
announces, pointing at Black. “You’re coming with me, the Hairy kid wants you.”
“Firstly,” Roy says, halting that with a palm up and looking directly at Bones. “Madam. How
are we addressing the lack of protections on that house?”
Bones turns on Albus. “What wards are there?”
“Wards are detectable, save if they are covered by the Fidelius,” Albus says, in the manner of
picking his words carefully but speaking without pause. “Anything warded in a muggle
neighborhood stands out quite starkly, especially if one is looking, and thus makes itself a
target. Muggles cannot be secret-keepers and thus the Fidelius cannot be used on their homes
without a witch or wizard in residence, and in this case to ward them with anything less
would mark them as a target in the eyes of Voldemort.” He spreads his hands slightly. “As it
stands - any death eaters will see nothing protected there, and assume there is nothing worth
protecting.”
They all stare at him. Roy briefly feels a little bit possessed himself, as the souls of every one
of his sisters momentarily enter him and manifest as the overwhelmingly strong urge to ruin
his manicure on Albus’s face. “This seems an approach very heavily dependent on luck,” he
points out, very even. “You already had one wizard watching that house: the guard that was
absent when the dementers attacked. Why did you not have him live with the family and use
the Fidelius ward through him?”
Albus sets his mouth under the beard, but at least meets Roy’s eyes squarely. “Mun dung us is
the freest of us, and he has other duties and demands upon his time,” he says. “We do not
have the resources to dedicate someone to guard that home that way. We are an organization
outside the law, regarded as dangerous by the current minister. Discretion has kept us safe
and given us room to maneuver that we would not otherwise have, if we’d taken more overt
steps and brought attention to our activities.” He sighs in something like regret. “In addition,
a witch or wizard would likely find themselves… uncomfortable, in that home, and the
family themselves quite discomfited.”
“You said there were blood wards,” the convict says intently. Remus is standing with him,
hands at his sides but closed in fists, and he’s silent but no less focused on Albus. There’s
something slightly off about that one, for all that he seems to be the resident peacemaker;
Maes watches him very closely when they’re in the same room, and that means Roy isn’t
going to engage there whatsoever until Maes finds out what it is. His instincts are,
unfortunately, too often right on the money.
“On Hairy, yes,” Albus says, nodding to the convict. “His mother’s protection. She did not tie
it to any location; it is proximity to his blood relatives that strengthens it, though it is unclear
whether that aspect of the ward is in effect given Voldemort has overcome the interdiction
against touch.”
“This blood ward acts on the family as well?” Roy says. “And it is weakened when the boy is
away from them?” That would be one explanation for why Albus was eager to get the child
back to his relatives.
“Lily Potter cast the spell on her son,” Albus says, which is not quite an answer. “The magic
was powerful and may have had some transference, especially with Hairy living with them,
but its primary focus was on him.”’
“So that family is indeed expendable,” Roy concludes, not bothering to look around and
check the wizards’ expressions. He doesn’t need to. “And you are not concerned about their
becoming hostages because they are not valued enough for you to negotiate.”
It’s ruthless, as decoy tactics go, but that’s about all it has going for it. If the enemy thought
he’d captured valuable bargaining chips when what he really had were sacrificial lambs, well,
there are plenty of ways that can go wrong and even done effectively it’s a timewaster at best.
You don’t negotiate, the hostages are executed, the enemy goes after another target. What did
you gain? It’s a technique to use in extremis only, and frankly there are far better ways to
distract an enemy and buy yourself a day or two of time.
“The threshold to action becomes a question of numbers for you, then,” Roy says clinically.
“You said you feared retribution from Voldemort in the form of mass killings. How many
casualties makes an unacceptable number? A family of more than three, I’m assuming - is it
double digits?”
Albus is looking at him almost sadly, but Bones’ face has gone tight. She draws her wand -
Roy tenses - and waves it at the air, saying “Expect o Patronum,” in a harsh voice. A silver
shape bursts out of the end and turns in midair, translucent and shimmering; like Moody’s
messenger shark, Roy realizes.
This one is a wolf, standing on nothing as it shakes out its ghostly pelt and looks attentively
at Bones. “Shackle bolt. Post an Auror team on the potter muggle house,” she orders it. “Do
it now. If anything else turns up - if anyone visits, if anything happens - we need to know.
Go.”
The wolf shape dips its head, spins and vanishes mid-leap like an optical illusion winking
out. “They’ll be guarded now,” Bones says directly to Roy. “Shackle bolt will pick Aurors we
can trust.”
And Albus’ grip is loosened on these vigilantes. “Thank you, Madam,” Roy says sincerely.
“Your quick actions may save lives.”
Bones barely grunts to acknowledge that, her gaze still fixed on Roy like she’s trying to read
his thoughts off the inside of his skull. Albus is watching him too, impassive with something
evaluating around the edges. Roy’s half certain Albus knows what he’s doing, but there’s no
countermaneuver whatsoever being put in play, which could mean that he’s decided to defer
in this specific arena of strategic expertise or that he’s planning to kidney-stab Roy the
second the playing field angles in his favor.
Roy’s happy to deal with either option: they both put time on his side. “Serious,” he says,
addressing the convict directly. “Hairy has asked you to join him upstairs to help him answer
some medical history questions. You knew his birth family, I take it?”
“Yeah,” Black says, looking slightly confused by this but mostly highly agreeable to going to
where the boy is. “Yeah, I’m going. But this isn’t over,” he adds suddenly, to Albus. He has
the look of a man who hasn’t fully processed all current events but what he has processed
he’s increasingly sure about. “No wards on that house - Hairy isn’t going back there. He’s not
staying anywhere without a Fidelius on it. Not with Voldemort sending dementers after him.
I’m his god father, for merlin’s sake - no. I’m putting my foot down.”
“I must agree,” Bones says, her squared-off face heavy with disapproval. “The boy should
never have been placed with muggles, but as things stand - he can’t go back there in any case.
We’ll have to find other accommodations.”
Albus inclines his head. “As you wish.”
“No wards,” the convict repeats, not quite an outburst: he still looks a little too surprised for
that, staring at Albus. “And he was there all summer - I - just - what the hell, dumbell door?”
“This isn’t about blame,” Roy says, stepping forward slightly and raising a hand to gesture
for calm. “Hairy is here and safe now. Let’s focus on how we’ll handle security going
forward.”
And he has her. He can see it in the way Bones shifts herself more fully to face him, an
almost subconscious change in posture: her regard of the room’s players has shifted, fully.
Maes catches it too, which is as good as peer review and confirmation - as does Edward,
judging by his sudden minute eyeroll.
Roy has to resist the urge to roll his eyes right back. It amuses him no end that Edward thinks
people ‘like’ him for his looks. If only pulling the levers were that simple.
“Your contractor,” Bones says. “He’s a wardbreaker?”
“A medical specialist,” Roy says. “His diagnostic techniques are applicable to more than the
human body, however.” Roy’s not convinced he wants to tip his hand as to the extent of
Alphonse’s qi sensing and what he can do with it, but these wizards are allies and his goal
here is to build trust as well as instill some competency. Bones may recognize some measure
of authority in him now, but he has to build on it. “We can confer with him as to the specifics
later, if you wish - they’re on the third floor, Serious, second door on the right.”
“I’ll take you up,” Edward says, which prompts a ripple through the teenagers.
“What about our wands?” the redhead girl says quickly, edging forward and darting a glance
at her mother. Roy is mildly impressed; it’s a risky move and she knows it, judging by that
quick look, but she must be betting on it to pay off or at least outweigh the consequences.
“What about your wands?” Molly says, eyes sharpening. “What did you - Ron! If you’ve
broken yours again-!”
“I didn’t break it!” one of the boys exclaims.
“He’s got them,” the redhead girl says quickly, pointing at Edward. “He took all our wands.”
“Why?” the man with the ponytail - presumably also a redhead relative - asks, as Molly
blinks in surprise at Edward, seemingly nonplussed.
“Because they kidnapped my fucking brother,” Edward says pointedly. “And then knocked
me out when I walked in on their little circle - just for funsies, I imagine, because I don’t
even wanna think about what the fuck their plan was gonna be for when I woke up. So yeah I
took their wands. Be grateful that’s all I fuckin’ took.”
“You knocked him out?” the ponytailed man says, staring at the teenagers. “Why? What did
he do to you?”
“It was an accident!” the brown girl says hurriedly, turning big, apologetic eyes on everyone.
“We - panicked, and - he just showed up so suddenly, and we’ve all been so on edge, since
the dementers - we really didn’t mean to -”
That’s not the worst card to play - could even be the best one she has available - but the facts
aren’t on her side and neither is Edward. “You knocked me out twice,” he says incredulously.
“Once is an accident, twice is enemy action -”
“You grabbed Ron’s leg! It was like a zombie coming to life!” the redhead girl says
defensively. “Hermione panicked the first time, and then I panicked the second - we’re sorry,
alright?”
“If you fire off whatever the hell magic you feel like whenever you panic, then you shouldn’t
have wands,” Edward retorts. “This shit is dangerous.”
Roy is not saying anything whatsoever about pots, kettles, glass houses or throwing stones,
because he wants to live. Besides, to Edward’s favor, he doesn’t panic and didn’t even as a
twelve year old - lost his temper, certainly, but never panicked. “I’m doing you flower kids a
fuckin’ favor,” Edward continues. “ If you can’t control yourselves, don’t fuck around with
live fire shit until you learn some fuckin’ trigger discipline.”
“Yes, but,” Molly says, slightly wide-eyed in a way that pretty clearly communicates to Roy
that she didn’t take in half of what Edward just said; her husband mostly looks anxious
beside her, occasionally glancing worriedly at Albus. “Taking their wands - they aren’t
criminals.”
“Ha! Grabbing someone and teleporting them against their will, that’s not a crime here? Do
they gotta be tied up and gagged for it to qualify as kidnapping?” Edward’s lip curls. “Your
twins took my brother somewhere he didn’t wanna be, lady, and that somewhere just
happened to be where the rest of your kids nearly died a day ago. Why they thought this was
a good idea, I can’t fuckin’ imagine, but they did it and now they’re living with the
consequences.”
“You - left the house?” Molly demands of her sons, voice rising in pitch but not yet volume.
“And they’ll be getting a hiding for it,” the ponytailed man speaks up again, leveling a stern
look on the twins. “But taking their wands is a bit harsh, for something that turned out alright
in the end - no harm, no foul, hey?”
“Their wands are their primary means of defense,” Albus adds gravely, looking at Edward.
“Should anything happen, they will need them to protect themselves.”
The wizards all look expectantly at Edward, who pointedly looks at Roy. Roy knows Edward
only does that when he’s trying to infuriate some third party with how much they aren’t the
boss of him, but it’s a nod to the existence of a chain of command nonetheless and Roy works
with what he’s got. Rewarding good behavior is the way to see more of it, after all. “Your
thoughts, Fullmetal?”
Edward shrugs, elaborately casual. “I guess if they act up I can always take ‘em away again,”
he says coolly. “Though if they want to play repeat offenders maybe next time I’ll just melt
‘em for scrap.”
“Why not,” Roy says, equally negligent. “Touching fire is the fastest way to learn, after all.”
The teenagers - and Molly - all look deeply alarmed by the aphorism, but Edward snorts,
claps and presses a hand to either bracer. The thick metal oozes back and drops a handful of
wands into either palm, which he collects into one and drops onto the kitchen table.
“Consider these out on parole,” he says sardonically as the teenagers all scramble to snatch
up their sticks. “You’re fuckin’ welcome.”
“Pretty dependent on those things, aren’tcha?” Maes remarks cheerily to Bones as Edward
claps again to reseal his bracers. “What can you do without ‘em?”
“It takes a powerful wizard to cast without a wand,” Bones says, watching Edward. “Lucky
for us most death eaters aren’t anywhere near that. You wanted to see what those cockroaches
can do - well, mad eye can show you a few things. Snape can probably tell you a few more.”
She’s still examining Edward, who finally catches notice and turns enough to narrow his eyes
right back. “You are the all metal alchemist?”
“Fullmetal, yeah, sure,” Edward says, wary.
“Olivier speaks highly of you,” Bones says.
“What, seriously?” Edward says, taken aback, just as Roy says “No she doesn’t.”
Bones snorts. “She said you were slightly less of a waste of air than most men, and that you
had managed to make yourself passingly dangerous for a runt with more vanity than brains.
That’s high praise from Livvie.”
“Runt,” Edward manages, then, bodily thrown off track, “Livvie?”
“That sounds like Olivier,” Roy allows. Olivier, like all of the heritably rich, respects nothing
that doesn’t have as much weight to throw and willingness to throw it as she does; Roy was
raised in a brothel and Edward’s from a town people have only ever heard of through
suggestive jokes about lipstick and sheep, but both of them made enough of the wrong kind
of choices to be able to talk big and back it up with the worst of them. “It seems you’ve
remained quite close over the years.”
Bones barks a laugh. “Close enough to yell for help when the broomstick’s stuck in the
churchhouse chimney and the muggles have just opened up the flue,” she says, as Edward
goes through a small but dramatic face journey that starts with him mouthing Livvie? and
then coloring abruptly. It’s a good thing his hair is down to cover the way his ears go
burgundy. “You wanted Black upstairs, didn’t you? Go on. We’re waiting for mad eye and
Snape in any case. I hear we’ll be doing this in the backyard.”
Chapter End Notes
Ed: oh my god royald they’re lesbians
Roy: good of you to finally notice
Chapter 40
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Your brother,” Hairy says hotly, “is a maniac.”
“Mm,” Al says, opening the door to the room Ed specified; it’s small and contains a dusty
couch, a rickety desk and some chairs. It’s not exactly the cleanest of environments, but it’ll
suit. “I thought his reaction to things was pretty tame, personally. Did it not seem that way to
you?”
“He took our wands,” Hairy says tightly, but he’s followed Al into the room even if he’s
mostly stuck by the door.
“You attacked him,” Al points out mildly. He’s interacting with Hairy in a professional
capacity and it’s in both their best interests for Al to build some trust, but Hairy and his
friends knocked Ed out and took Al for an extremely ill-advised joyride. “If two strangers
grabbed one of your friends with no warning and disappeared with no way for you to follow,
what would you have done?”
Hairy sets his jaw. “Fred and George shouldn’t have grabbed you,” he says grudgingly. “But
he trapped us in the floor, and he went right for -”
He breaks off, still glaring, hands in fists. Al sighs. “Did he hurt you?”
“... No.”
“What did he do?”
“.... Pinned us. Took our wands.”
Al spreads his hands in a small there you go gesture. “Ed disarmed you without hurting any
of you. He may have seemed scary, but he’s a professional, and his reaction was very
reasonable. He’s a State Alchemist. He is part of an official delegation that came to help you,
as personally requested by your national chief of police, and you attacked him.” Al fixes
Hairy with a look. “This incident could have been much bigger than it was. We all got very,
very lucky that there were no more dementers at your relatives’ house, or something even
worse. Fred and George could have been captured, or injured, or even killed.”
He lets that sit for a moment. Hairy doesn’t look chagrined, exactly, but he’s biting the inside
of his cheek. Al gentles his tone slightly. “None of us want to see any of you get hurt. When
you and your friends make decisions like that, you don’t just put yourself at risk, you risk the
people who care about you, who come after you to help you and bring you back. Right now
it’s part of my brother’s job to make sure everybody is safe, and if you’re knocking people
out and running off into dangerous situations, you’re not only distracting everyone from the
main objective, you’re making it an active hazard to be around you. Having your wands
confiscated doesn’t hurt you, and it helps you not hurt other people, even by accident.”
That’s a lot longer to say than Ed’s getting a cookie for not tearing your heads off, but is
arguably better received. “You’re not going to be without your wands forever. Right now,
though, this is the safest option for everyone. I think we can all agree on that, yes?”
Hairy still looks thoroughly muleheaded about things, but the body language is that of
someone who realizes there’s not much they can do right now. He glowers uncertainly at Al
for a bit anyway. “And now you’re going to look at my scar too?”
“Among other things,” Al allows, nodding.
“Your brother already looked at it. He didn’t find anything.”
“My brother is a lot of things, but medically trained is not one of them,” Al says dryly. “Do
you want Mr. Black present for the entirety of the session? It seemed a little bit like the
choice was made for you.”
“Yeah, he’ll be here,” Hairy says, like he expects that to be challenged. “What’re you going
to do?”
“Mostly establish your medical history. Normally a lot of this would be filled out on paper,
but due to the language barrier and lack of forms on hand I think it’ll be easiest for us to just
have a discussion,” Al says. Then he sighs again. “Now. As my brother mentioned,
Amestrisan medical law isn’t applicable here - Xingese either - and your case would be an
exception even if it were. Ordinarily, as your doctor, I am bound by patient confidentiality,
which means your medical information is private, and anything you communicate to me as
your medical provider is confidential and I cannot divulge it to anyone without your express
written permission. In your situation, however, there are things I may have to share with my
team as well as potentially several adults on your end.”
Hairy doesn’t look like he would benefit from an explanation that right now he is technically
considered a civilian asset part of an active military operation and that General Mustang can
order Al to count Hairy’s nose hairs and announce the results via bullhorn if he wants to, or
tell his adults and guardians nothing whatsoever about what they’re doing to him and why.
As a military contractor Al has some leeway to exercise his judgment when given orders, but
there’s a reason he never takes such a contract unless it’s with Ed and the General on the
other end. When the Amestrisan military takes a situation over, they take it over, and it’s only
the discretion of individual officers that makes things like privacy and bodily autonomy
occasionally more than a vague theoretical concept or joke.
“However,” Al says aloud. What Hairy needs to know right now is that in this case, Al can
and will treat him as much like an ordinary patient as he is able. “While we will be going
over your health holistically so as not to miss any potential complicating factors, I am only
going to share information that is strictly relevant to your… scar, as and if the situation
demands, and nothing else. For example, if you tell me when you were six you licked a frog
and had an embarrassing rash all over your tongue for two weeks, that’s important to know
because it indicates you may have certain allergies, but that’s not something I’m going to
discuss with anyone, as it is not relevant to the greater situation at hand and not necessary for
anyone else to know. Does that all make sense?”
Hairy looks a little fishslapped by the wall of information, but after a few seconds of Al’s
politely expectant look he nods.
Eyeing Al like he’s a potentially venomous species of lizard seems to be Hairy’s default; Al
doesn’t take it personally. “Good,” he says. “If there’s anything you’re uncomfortable
discussing in front of another person, you can send out Mr. Black at any time, and we can
bring him back in after.” Al considers adding a version of his the more you tell me the truth,
the faster and better I can help you speech that he usually only needs for younger children in
similar situations, but decides against it. Hairy has no obvious incentive to lie or omit the
specific information Al’s looking for, and at this age drawing attention to something you
don’t want him to do would be practically guaranteeing he’d try it.
Al opts for an encouraging smile instead. “Let’s sit down. Do you have any questions for me
while we wait for Mr. Black?”
“What’s qi?” Hairy says immediately, staying by the doorway as Al sits on the couch and lays
his cane across his knees.
“It’s the energy that flows through all living things,” Al says, deciding that, in this particular
situation at this particular moment, mystic pighockey is the way to go. “With training, it can
be sensed, and it’s a very useful tool to investigate illness and other imbalances in the body.
Qi comes later, though, we’re starting a little more basic first. You’re fifteen years old, yes?”
“Yeah,” Hairy says.
“You’re out of school right now for the summer? Are you specializing in anything?”
Hairy’s brows lower further in confusion. “Specializing?”
“Do your schools do that? Around fifteen is generally when most people pick apprenticeships
or specific fields of study. Plenty stay on the general track, of course,” Al says; he knows
intellectually that this can be a question with a lot of stress attached for teenagers around this
age. “A lot of people wait to specialize until university.”
“We can pick classes and stuff,” Harry says warily, still looking a little like Al’s cornered him
in a back alley and he’s not sure whether it’s to mug him or try to sell him a bootleg watch.
“At hog warts. There’s exams this year. Oh double you els. If you don’t pass those you have
to retake the classes. I think. Maybe they just don’t let you go on to the next level.”
Not an individual overly devoted to the scholastic arts, then. Understandable, given the
circumstances. “Anything in particular you’re interested in?”
“Flying,” Hairy says shortly.
“Flying,” Al repeats, steady. Teleporting wasn’t enough? They teach flying at school? “How,
exactly…”
Al breaks off as he feels a couple of lifespots approaching, and a second later the door
springs open and freezes, juddering slightly, against the wall.
This is generally what happens with doors when Ed is involved, but usually he’s got to make
physical contact with them first. “Oh, that’s what he meant,” Al says aloud, as stomping
approaches from down the hall. “About the house.”
A second later Ed shows up in the doorway, Serious Black scowling behind him. “Here’s
your convict,” Ed tells Hairy as he strides through the door, in a similar tone he used to tell
the General-then-Colonel here’s your damn report. “En-fuckin’-joy.”
“And his wand,” Black says pointedly, stepping around Ed to get into the room.
Ed gives him a look of scathing derision and tosses a wand to Hairy, who snatches it
immediately out of the air. “You’re giving it back?” Al says, genuinely surprised. “What did
the General threaten you with?” And why? He hadn’t seemed any happier than Ed was about
the teenagers running amok teleporting and firing off knockout magic, and the General is a
lot more vindictive than Ed is.
Ed shrugs, showing teeth in a pointed predator grin at Hairy. “No threats. They fuck around
again, I get to just get rid of their little sticks permanently.”
Then the General must be fully expecting the children to overstep again, in order to make
Ed’s subsequent destruction of property seem reasonable and justified. Or maybe he just
wanted to look generous and forgiving and not vindictive at all in front of the wizards?
Whatever it is, Al’s not entirely sure he approves: Hairy looks pretty defiant at this
proclamation, and Al kind of wants to remind Ed how he would’ve reacted at age fifteen to
what is essentially a taunt of ‘try it again, I dare you’.
“If he does, I’ll buy you a new one,” Black says to Hairy, because he’s also apparently got the
response of a teenage male with six to eight hundred things to prove. “But maybe don’t go
around stunning soldiers, yeah? Seems like they’re pretty easily upset about these things.”
Al feels the winds of the lowest nether hells start to gather around his brother and stands up
smartly to intercept things. “Why don’t you go downstairs and see about where you’ll be
doing your demonstration?” he says, trying to block Ed’s view of the two wizards; it’s a lot
harder now that he’s only half a head taller instead of twice Ed’s height, but sometimes Ed
can be tricked into cooling down if he can’t see whatever it is he’s mad at.
“It’s outside,” Ed growls, looking like he’s gonna step around Al, only then some other
thought visibly enters his head and immediately bulldozes whatever he was thinking about
before. “Here,” Ed says, much more cheerful, and claps, touches his bracers and peels them
off in a crackle of discharge. He tosses both to Al. “Hang onto these for me for a bit. I’m
gonna try something new.”
Al gives him the deeply questionable look that statement deserves. “And what’s that going to
be exactly?”
“Oh… just the next generation of arms race technology.” With a maniacal cackle at his own
dumb joke, Ed’s gone.
“If you blow your arm off I’m not reattaching it for you again!” Al calls after him,
exasperated, then shuts the door and turns back to the wizards. “Sorry about him,” he tells
their dubious looks, going back to sit down on the couch and put Ed’s bracers beside him.
“He just gets excited sometimes.”
“You... reattach arms?” Black says skeptically.
“Yes,” Al says, because, well, technically… yes. “In certain circumstances. But I would
prefer not to. Please, sit down - are you a relative of Hairy’s, Mr. Black?”
“I’m his god father,” Black says, picking a chair across from the couch and sitting down; only
then does Hairy sit, scooting the chair a little closer to him.
“God father?” Al says politely, deliberately suppressing his own personal associations with
those two words both separately and together; it may actually just be one of those translation
mishaps, though he can’t guess as to what term it might be mangling.
“It’s - somebody you name for your child, to take care of them if anything. Happens to you,”
Black says, his expression fracturing very slightly mid-sentence. He coughs a little. “It’s a
muggle term. Came from one of their religions.”
“Oh, I see,” Al says, cautiously optimistic. A convict currently wanted by the state is not the
absolute best of options, but it’s an alternative to the aunt and uncle and there seems to be
some formality to the arrangement. “Does it give you any legal guardianship?”
“Not - directly,” Black says. “Ordinarily, yeah. I’d be first in line for custody, but -” He blows
out a frustrated breath and gestures. “Got to clear my name first, and all that.”
“I see. I hope for a successful resolution to your appeal,” Al says, and only once it’s left his
mouth does he realize the rote wellwishing came out automatically in Xingese. Oops. Black
is nodding and grimacing in a grateful sort of way, though, so what Ed said about the
translation rocks not distinguishing between languages must be accurate. “You’re here
accompanying Hairy in your capacity as god father, then, as a stand-in for his parents,” Al
says, deciding they might as well begin. “We’re going to go over his medical information and
establish what we can about family medical history as well, so anytime you feel you have
information that may be relevant, please don’t hesitate to add what you know. At some point
there may be some topics Hairy is uncomfortable discussing with you in the room, however,
so we may ask you to step out for a moment or two, but on the whole this is very much a
conversation between the three of us.”
“What kinds of topics?” Black asks suspiciously.
“Are you sexually active?” Al says brightly, turning directly to Hairy.
Hairy’s eyes go huge and he sputters as Black roars with laughter. “No,” Hairy manages,
mortified, looking like he wants to turtle into his shirt and disappear as Black gives him a
couple of jovial backslaps. “No, I, I’m not, no.”
“It’s alright if you are,” Black reassures inbetween cackles. “Just make sure you’re polite, say
please and thank you, girls like that, and never do a thing without protection -”
“Serious!” Hairy complains, turtling further in his seat, but Black just slings an arm around
his shoulders and gives him a friendly shake. “Don’t worry about it, kid,” he says happily.
“It’ll happen when it happens. I wasn’t kidding about the protection, though, alright? You
don’t want to be sitting across from a doctor like this explaining how you thought it was just
dragon pox, honest, and you have no idea how it got on your -”
“Serious!”
“Just saying,” Black says cheerfully, as Hairy squirms under his arm but makes no move to
actually get it off. “Better safe than sorry.”
Al coughs slightly into his fist, amused. “That’s broadly correct,” he says, smiling at Hairy’s
wince, “and he’s also right, that’s not something we need to worry about right now. We’ve
established you’re fifteen - are you mixed as well?”
“What?”
“Mixed parentage. Like my brother and I,” Al says, gesturing at his face, then belatedly
remembers their looks probably don’t signify anything to them. “Our mother was East
Amestrisan but our father was from the desert. The coloring is from Dad - Easterners tend to
look either like General Mustang or Captain Havoc,” he adds for reference. “Usually either
pale and blond or mixed Xingese, what with being so close to the border.”
Hairy eyes him like he thinks this might be a trick question. “My mum was white,” he says
after a moment, almost cautiously, glancing at Black; Black’s mostly still squinting at Al like
he’s trying to figure out which parts come from which parent. “I look like my dad. Except the
eyes.”
“He does,” Black says, looking back at Hairy immediately at this and nodding encouragingly.
“Spitting image. Very much lily’s eyes, though.”
“That makes sense,” Al says. Presumably white is the slang for Hairy’s aunt and uncle’s
ethnicity, if the word is even translating correctly; Black’s as well, probably, given he looks
fairly similar: dark hair, very pale skin, dark eyes. “I understand you’ve been living with your
aunt and uncle most of your life - are you close with any other relatives?”
“No,” Hairy says shortly, knuckles tightening on his knees. “They’re all dead.”
Black grips Hairy’s shoulder, face darkening. “I’m sorry,” Al says, meaning it. “I don’t mean
to pry, but any information on your relatives’ health helps us build a clearer profile on your
own. Cardiac and neurological issues - heart and brain - are often hereditary, and if there
any… symptoms -” Al pointedly lets his eyes flick up to Hairy’s scar - “this may help us
determine what may be your normal background pathology and what may be caused by…
outside influences.”
It’s also the best way Al has right now to fish for information that might help him resolve
Hairy’s living situation. He doesn’t even know if they have social workers here, and the case
is already convoluted enough; given there seems to be a vested interest in keeping Hairy with
his aunt and uncle for some reason, approaching things head on may not be the way to get
results.
“Wait, wait. Heart and brain?” Black says, leaning forward, glancing between Hairy and Al.
“What’s wrong with his brain?”
“Potentially nothing. I believe headaches and intermittent pain specifically in the scar were
mentioned, when your case was outlined to me,” Al says. “Is that correct?”
“Yes,” Hairy says tightly, glancing at Black again. “It hurts when Voldemort’s close. Or when
I have the - dreams.”
“Mm. Between the size of the scar and the placement, the scar tissue alone wouldn’t be
causing that sort of thing, though lingering psychosomatic symptoms from past trauma have
been known to cause migraines,” Al says consideringly. “If you’re having certain kinds of
dreams, there may be other factors affecting your brain, but either way we’ll get a clearer
idea of what may be happening when I examine your qi. Did either of his parents get
migraines, do you know? Regular headaches? Any other illnesses?”
“No,” Black says, slightly bewildered. “No, nothing like that. James did get dragon pox,
once, when we were sixteen, but that’s - it cleared up no problem, spent hardly two weeks in
the infirmary. His parents both died of it later on, but they were both very old, it wasn’t a
surprise… No, he and lily were both perfectly healthy, far as I know.”
“That’s good,” Al says. Whatever dragon pox is sounds a lot like pneumonia, in terms of
mortality: a healthy sixteen year old can shake it off but an elderly couple might succumb.
“What about you, Hairy? Any health issues? Any hospital stays?”
“Not... really,” Hairy says. “I… usually I’m in the infirmary because I got hurt. Not sick.”
Al hmms. “What kinds of injuries have you been treated for?”
“... My leg got bit by an Acromantula in the try wizard tournament last year,” Hairy says after
a second, grimacing. “And I got all the bones in my arm regrown one time. And… when I got
bit by the Basilisk. That was mostly healed by fox, though.” Hairy shrugs, rubbing his right
elbow and looking at his knees. “And - dementer exposure. A couple of times. I guess.”
“Exposure to dementers requires hospitalization?” Al asks, concerned. Ed had seemed fine, if
a little on edge, but Ed can seem fine while actively getting his leg chewed off by a crocodile.
“Are there long term effects? Delayed reactions?”
Black is grimacing now as well, but it’s a hollower, more distant look than Hairy’s, the lines
deepening on his face. “Depends,” he says, voice rough. “Some people have - sensitivity.
And the longer you’re exposed, the more dementers there are… it can get. Bad.”
“What kind of bad?” Al says. “Physical complications, or…?”
Hairy’s gaze flicks back up to Al, some of his earlier hostility returning. “You’re stuck there
and you can’t really move. I fell off my broom once because a lot of them got too close to the
pitch at hog warts. And I passed out another time when we - when the dementers all swarmed
on the grounds again.”
“Dementers feed on souls,” Black says quietly, a little hoarse, before Al can ask what exactly
falling off one’s broom refers to. “But they’ll drain your magic as well, if they’re close to
you. And it’ll affect your life force too if it’s for long enough. You’re weak for a long time
after. Nightmares, nerves… even short term exposure can put you on bed rest. All you can
do, really,” he adds, to Al’s intent look. “Rest up, eat chocolate - try and cheer yourself up.”
That is… doable, as prescriptions go; getting Ed to eat chocolate is like asking water to flow
downhill, though Al would like some more information. “You mentioned some individuals
have a sensitivity,” he says, because with Ed’s luck he might end up dropping on his ass from
this a week from now and Al will have better luck convincing him to take it easy if he can
brandish some medical facts in his face. “Do we know what factors into that? Is it physical?”
“They make you relive your worst memories,” Hairy says shortly. “If you’ve got bad ones,
it’s worse for you.”
Ah. Al’s going to stuff Ed full of chocolate until he chokes. Black looks at Hairy with a kind
of helpless empathy; Hairy glances at him and looks back down at his lap. “My parents
dying,” he says, an answer to an unspoken question Al’s not sure Black actually wanted to
ask.
Black hisses in a breath through his teeth. “You remember that?”
“The dementers brought it back,” Hairy says, almost listlessly. “I guess without them I
wouldn’t have known what my mum and dad’s voices sounded like. So.”
Black grips Hairy’s shoulder, tight, then seems to remember Al’s in the room too, glancing
over at him. “James and lily were murdered,” he says curtly. “By Voldemort. Personally.”
“I didn’t even know they were murdered,” Hairy says distantly. “At first. Until I was eleven I
was told they died in a car crash.”
“A car crash?” Black says incredulously, rearing back before reigning it in a little as Hairy
startles. “That - well, I suppose no one would have told muggles…”
“They knew,” Hairy says, terse, uncomfortable. “They don’t like magic. They thought they
could make me normal.”
“That’s….” Black squeezes Hairy’s shoulders again and steals a glance at Al, once, his
expression slightly lost. “You are normal,” he says. “Don’t let it get to you. Muggles can be a
bit….”
He trails off. It’s clear that he doesn’t know what else to say to this, or what more to do.
There’s a tiredness in Hairy’s eyes that Al’s seen before, in the faces of children, husbands,
mothers, wives, and it’s not much to do with remembering his parents’ murders. There was so
very little Master Yunxian and the clinic could do, in the end. They stayed in a village hardly
a week, maybe a day more, occasionally two if there was a bout of illness going around or the
weather was really bad. They could offer no resources beyond healing what was currently
injured and having some quiet conversations that they had very little way to follow up on. Al
had very nearly broken a man’s arm once when Master Yunxian caught up to him and shared
some very sharp words about who exactly the retribution for the broken bone would fall on.
Everyone knew the clinic would move on. Master Yunxian’s travel route was seven months
total: seven months before she returned to Dàdū and started to cycle through again. A lot can
happen in seven months.
Sometimes they get lucky, and the village they’re at is either built around or nearby an
imperial garrison. Master Yunxian is an Imperial Physician and her clinic work is state
funded; she technically has rank in a military context if there’s a medical or public health
matter at hand. In two cases she was able to ensure regular home visits for the family in
question from a garrison sergeant and a few of their more sympathetic soldiers, but even that
was done as an exchange of goodwill and favors, largely off the books. Sometimes there’s a
relative the next village over that’s willing to take on a ward. If a child can make it to a city, a
temple or a trade school generally takes them in - many receive imperial stipends specifically
for orphan care - but that requires them to get there in the first place.
Some do; Mei told him it was unusual for her to have traveled by herself all the way to
Amestris, but more for the distance and border crossing than for the fact that she was eleven
and alone: freight caravans pick up farm kids all the time, taking them to the nearest town to
sell or buy whatever their clan sends them for and taking payment in barter as much as
money. Mei’s an alkahestrist, however, and Chang is one of the clans that teaches everyone to
fight practically from birth, seeing as they lived in bandit country and weren’t large enough
or rich enough to stratify into soldier castes or take on bodyguard clans as retainers. Her
situation was not the norm.
Hairy is fifteen. That’s not nothing: he can likely work a job, if necessary, and will reach the
age of majority in two years if Al understands the wizards’ legal adulthood standards
correctly. Two years is even longer than seven months, however, and Hairy is caught up in a
situation run by players that have already proven that they’re not exactly prioritizing his
health.
In four cases, Master Yunxian offered the child a choice to go with the clinic and be dropped
off at the nearest temple. Two of the children had taken her up on it - one eight, one ten - and
they’d escorted one to a Thousand Palms monastery and the other to one of the Great Cycle
schools that trained scribes and accountants. The other two children had chosen to stay with
their families. Al can’t blame them. Being asked to leave everything you’ve ever known -
survivable so far - and strike out into something totally unfamiliar with no guarantee it’ll
actually be any better… that’s an immensely difficult choice to ask any adult, let alone any
child.
Not every parent loves their children. Not everyone is even capable of it. That’s a certain kind
of tragedy, to discover that about yourself only after the damage is done. And that’s not even
the worst of it. You can love your child and still hurt them, Al learned, hurt them
intentionally, brutally, repeatedly. You can find out that love doesn’t have to mean anything at
all.
Al sometimes lies awake and thinks about how he’s experienced more deeply fucky shit - to
put it Ed’s way - a lot more often and more regularly as a medical professional than as a
haunted suit of armor swirling in a waist-high soup of genocide, human experimentation and
state violence. It’s different kinds of fucky shit, of course - much more mundane. Much more
endemic to the human condition. Nothing as easily solvable as a near-immortal alchemynegating homunculus.
Al misses Ed pretty regularly these days, first with traveling with the clinic and now studying
in Dàdū, but at the same time he’s glad Ed’s not there with him, doing the rounds. Ed hasn’t
got the circuits for this kind of stuff. He’d get madder and madder with nowhere for it to go,
and for all that medical alkahestry can do some incredible things there’s still so much that just
isn’t fixable. Ed doesn’t do unfixable. Ed sees solutions that no one else does, runs risk
calculations that don’t add up if it were any other person, and at the core of it all he’s still the
boy that looked at death and decided he wasn’t going to buy into all that propaganda about it
being permanent.
It’s part of why Al didn’t put up much of a fuss when Ed decided to stay with the military.
Solving problems directly is good for him, and with the General and his team backing him,
Ed’s a lot less likely to die taking on the kinds of things no one else would dream of daring to
touch. He’s doing good work, important work, with a guarantee he won’t ever be used as a
weapon the way the General and the others were, and while he might be exposed to things
like dementers in the course of that, it keeps him very far away from the very dangerous
place known as bored.
And while Ed is sorting the terrorists, Al can take care of situations like this. “You attend a
boarding school most of the year, yes?” he says, keeping his tone casual. Hairy nods, eyeing
him warily. “And in the summers you stay with your aunt and uncle?”
“He won’t be anymore,” Black cuts in resolvedly, straightening in his seat but not removing
his arm from Hairy’s shoulders. “He can stay with me. I - may not have much now, but -
Grimmauld place is warded, at least. And I’ve got funds. There’s that. Hell, we could - stay in
Spain, maybe. Turkey. Grease. They don’t give a damn about what’s happening in Britain,
they won’t care I’m a wanted man. But you’re not going back there, Hairy. I already told
dumbell door. With dementers after you - you can’t stay with muggles. And anywhere
without a Fidelius isn’t safe.”
Hairy looks like he was just told the winter solstice came early this year and that his presents
are all out back since the truck hauling all of them won’t fit through the garage door. “You
mean it?” he demands, twisting to Black. “What did dumbell door say?”
“He said it’s alright,” Black says, looking cautiously happy and relieved. “Said it just now
downstairs in front of everyone - even director bones, you can ask. And we’ll hold him to it,
yeah? What do you say?”
“Yeah,” Hairy says animatedly. “Yeah, that’s - I’d like that. Let’s do it. Here or anywhere, I
don’t care,” and Black grins hugely and shakes him again and pulls him in for a one-armed
hug. Hairy, apparently not one to put much stock in maintaining teen boy cool,
wholeheartedly throws both arms around him and squeezes enough to make Black oof and
laugh again.
Al sits back, quietly satisfied. The situation may not be entirely resolved, but this is a very
good start. He’s not sure what Ed or more likely the General just did downstairs to facilitate
Black’s claim to custody, but it sounds like it’ll stick: if he heard Black right then Bones,
national director of law enforcement for the wizards, was party to the discussion, and if she
didn’t take issue with the presence of an ostensible mass murderer then she may if not
support then at least not object to Black submitting some kind of appeal for amnesty.
Hairy and Black separate, Black still grinning and Hairy smiling, looking almost like a
different person without the deep pinch between his brows. “Congratulations,” Al says,
meaning it. “Now, shall we take a look at your qi?”
Chapter End Notes
sirius, squinting at al: didn’t the crazy one say your dad was some kinda immortal
whatever
al: mhm
sirius: so… is that why he’s….. Like That
al, turning Trisha Elric’s Nothing Fazes Me Not God Not You Not The Devil smile on
him: oh no we get our best qualities from our mother
alternatively
harry: so yeah i was like abused or whatever. Idk how to really talk about it tho
sirius: yeah no same. Wish i could give u some advice on how to like. deal or whatevs
but i have one (1) coping mechanism and that’s turning into a dog
Chapter 41
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed would’ve kept the wands, if only for a couple days to make a point, only this entire
situation is so much of a thrashing, foaming clusterfuck that giving them back somehow
turned out to be the least shittiest option. The adults wizards are useless, they clearly have
next to no authority with the kids themselves, and yesterday the lot of them almost all
fucking died via dementer because Beardy and whoever the fuck else decided that security
sure was a cool sounding word but not a concept they needed to worry themselves with.
There was a shapeshifting fear monster inside their safehouse. They didn’t even clear the
safehouse before they warded it up with their fidelly-whatever. There could have been a rabid
bear in the attic for all they knew, and they just barricaded themselves in anyway, kids and
all. And the kids might be all friendly with the chimera, but it went after Arget and Ed’s not
gonna bank on a large, dangerous animal behaving safely and predictably at all times.
So the kids need weapons. Little fuckers. Ed has to console himself with the fact that the
sticks themselves weren’t all that hard to take away, and Mustang gave him explicit, public
permission to fuck the wands permanently if any of the kids try shit again. Which should be
somewhat of a deterrent, even if they are a pack of fuckin’ fetuses with their good decision
making brain bits still barely half-built and not moving especially fast down the production
line. They try some shit, Ed’s most likely just gonna take their sticks away again, but they
don’t need to know he’s not gonna woodchipper those things into toothpicks unless he really
has to.
In the meantime, he’s got shit to do. Ed ducks into the map room to pick up his jacket and
finds everybody else already in there, Hughes pointing stuff out to Bones on the map. It
sounds like he’s also giving her the whole your government is compromised, if you get any
execution orders treat that shit like a live grenade and watch out for batches of prisoners
disappearing talk; Beardy, Baldy and Ponytail Guy are there too, though Mustang’s a little
off to the side of them talking quietly with Hawkeye.
They both look over at him as he crouches by the packs and swaps out his white gloves for
the black ones, which makes them eye his hands for a second too long, faces impassive. Ed
just knows they know the gloves are lined with lead shot - Breda’s gift to him on his
eighteenth birthday, “so you can punch just as hard as you used to, but this time with both
hands” - but neither of them have said anything, and so far they’ve both signed off on any
report Ed submits that posits he has no idea why the target’s kneecap just broke like that.
They’re not saying anything right now, either, which means they probably won’t care if Ed
dislocates a wizard jaw or two.
Ed shakes his hands out to settle the heavy gloves, then looks around. Jones glances up
inquisitively at him from the table, so Ed jerks his chin in a question. “See any coal around
anywhere?”
Jones’ eyebrows draw together. “Coal?”
That gets Mustang’s attention enough for him to step over, leaving the wizards entirely to
Hughes; Hawkeye follows him. She’s tracking everyone in the room in that mildly terrifying
360 awareness thing she does, Ed can tell; she was in the room when Mustang started
reaming out Beardy and flipped Bones, and the fact that she’s sticking so close now means
she’s probably gonna bodyslam any wizard that steps within arm’s reach of him. Shadowing
Mustang is more Havoc’s job these days now that Hawkeye runs Internal Security, but Ed
doesn’t blame Havoc for stepping back on this one. Mustang’s their heaviest hitter and
Hawkeye’s got the best track record at keeping him focused, functional and alive.
Besides, if somebody hits Mustang with a mind control whammy, they won’t even have time
to yell abracadabra before they’re all cooked. Hell, Ed will jump in front of that magic zap
thing himself if he has to. He’s gonna have to ask Bones or whoever to use the mind control
on him so that they can at least figure out how it works; if he gets compromised Mustang can
just pull his oxygen long enough to black him out and get Havoc to sit on him or something.
Fucking mind control. Wizards are insane.
Mustang looks as lackadaisically ignorant of any risk as ever as he comes up, glancing at
Ed’s bare arms and tapping two fingers against his own forearm. “Where’d these go?”
“With Al,” Ed says. The bracers are kind of a necessity, because blocking with his right arm
is an unbreakable habit at this point and wearing just one is stupid. He usually transmutes the
lead in his black gloves into spiked knuckledusters or armor plating, depending on the fight,
and between that and the bracers he generally gets almost full coverage on all the highcontact surfaces of both arms. For this, though - Ed had only caught a glimpse of what those
kids had fired out of their sticks before it hit him, and while it felt like being kicked by a
mule, it looked like a bolt of light. It’s a supporting point to the qi-as-magic-as-lightfrequencies model, but Ed’s more concerned right now with how to defend against it if he
can’t just shut it off.
Fortunately, Ed had an idea - or rather Greed did: you want stopping power, you fuck around
with some carbon.
“I’m gonna try something,” is what Ed says aloud, so as not to tip off any wizards. “Dunno
what the fuck else they’re fucking with around here, and maybe steel’s not gonna be enough.
I got some ideas to deal with it. Just in case.”
“Edward Elric, exhibiting caution?” Mustang says, eyebrows rising all amused over the
satisfied look in his eyes. “Colonel, could you check out the window for me? I suspect hogs
may be trying to fly.”
“That’s very funny, sir,” Hawkeye says tonelessly, because she’s the only person with
common sense who still voluntarily gets within a mile of Mustang. “How much coal do you
need?”
“Like a kilo?” Ed grimaces at the imprecision, but he has no idea how much he’ll have to
extract to get what he actually needs. “Carbon content varies and for all I know the coal here
is actually just unicorn shit or something.”
“We also need chromoly steel,” Mustang says, gesturing slightly at Hawkeye. That throws Ed
for a second until he remembers that she doesn’t have any of her rifles with her and they’re
sure as shit gonna need at least one. “Or at least chromium and molybdenum separately, as
I’m fairly sure you’re capable of transmuting any kind of steel to exact percentages.”
“You got an array for that?” Ed says, because he’s never transmuted a working firearm before
- though, hell, if Hawkeye disassembles one of her pistols and lets him have a look he can
probably put something together from first principles. That would definitely not be his first
choice, however, and probably not Mustang and Hawkeye’s either if there’s a more proven
option to hand.
“He’s made weapons for me before,” Hawkeye confirms.
“If you can provide the appropriate steel grade, I can take care of the rest,” Mustang says.
“Yeah, okay,” Ed says. “Like two, two anna half kilos of carbon, then. Let’s hope they have
coal.”
The wizards do not fucking have coal. What they make their fires out of, apparently, is wood
logs and magic. Ed is told this when he finally gives in and asks after a quick circuit of the
house (kids are in the kitchen, getting reamed by their mom; Ed gets a dirty look from Not A
Twin and Miss Redhead that he ignores in favor of checking the empty fireplace. Havoc,
back on babysitting duty, gives him a please save me look that Ed also dutifully ignores.)
Ponytail guy isn’t balls deep in Hughes’ interactive seminar on So Your Government Is Super
Compromised, Here’s What Not To Do, so Ed goes up to him and asks what they burn around
here.
“You just light some logs with an Incendio,” Ponytail says, bemused. “If you want a real fire,
I mean. A standard everlasting conflagration charm’s safer, usually, and gives off heat and
light just the same.”
Well that’s spectacularly unhelpful. “Do you have gasoline?” Ed demands. “Methane? If I
have to pull it from the fucking trees I’m going the fuck home.”
“I… don’t think we have either,” Ponytail tells Ed, at least having the decency to look
apologetic.
“What’s methane?” Baldy asks interestedly, cropping up at Ponytail’s shoulder.
“Cow farts,” Ed says sourly, thoroughly disgusted with wizard uselessness. “It’s also like
ninety percent of natural gas and blows up. What?”
He says the last to Mustang, who’s eyeing him from where he’s on the outskirts of Hughes’
presentation again. Mustang just shrugs with his face, but then he tips his head in the slightest
bit towards the door in a way that means let’s talk privately.
“Cow… farts?” Ponytail says delicately.
“Don’t worry about it,” Ed says, turning to follow Mustang out of the map room and into one
of the empty ones across the hall. Hawkeye lets them go - Beardy and the others glance at
them curiously as is, better she stays and listens - but not before catching Ed’s eye and giving
him the watch his ass look.
“What,” Ed says, when Mustang closes the door behind them.
“I’m going to assume you can work with gases, since you asked for methane,” Mustang says,
crossing the room to open one of the windows all the way. Then he stands to the side, taps his
fingertips together and pulls his hands apart, palms up like he’s praying for rain.
Ed barely hears the crackle of transmutation, subtle and almost soundless the way all of
Mustang’s discharges are, and then he feels the air change, an artificial breeze coming from
the window as the local gas composition of the room starts dancing to Mustang’s tune. He’s -
oh, what a bastard. Ed glares at the side of Mustang’s focused, blue-lit face as he concentrates
carbon dioxide in the air between them; in seconds it’s coalescing into grey mist, then roiling
white fog. Mustang fuckin’ transmutes it solid in midair, the block of dry ice thudding into
the ground as the reaction ends.
“When did you get good?” Ed says accusingly.
Mustang narrows his eyes. “I’ve been good, Fullmetal,” he says, some peevishness in his
tone as he lowers his hands. “I was the youngest State Alchemist ever to pass before you
came along.”
“Don’t bullshit me. That was a full state change, which you can’t do to CO2 that fast without
controlling the pressure and temperature,” Ed says. The Gate gives you a lot, sure, but some
stuff you just can’t pull off without studying and practicing your ass into a ditch. “That’s a
three-stage concentric array. I’ve barely seen you clap since the Promised Day and you
specialized within an inch of your life to make more room in your head for all the politics.”
“I specialized in atmospheric transmutation,” Mustang grumbles. “Which is not so narrow a
field that you can only blow things up with it. It may also be possible, Fullmetal, that when I
practice I do so in private, not on the parade grounds in front of everybody and their aunty in
Command. Hurry up before it sublimates entirely.”
“Yeah, thanks for making me fucking freeze my fingers off to touch it,” Ed complains,
crouching down.
“It’s the most stable form of concentrate without maintaining an active transmutation, and
while you might decide that introducing another array to someone else’s already active is a
grand old time the rest of us are a little more careful with our lives,” Mustang says pissily.
“What are you talking about, me an’Al transmute shit together all the time,” Ed says, kind of
distractedly since the temperature variable here is so whacked. The surface of the dry ice is in
a constant state of boiling away back into the air, and he needs to concentrate more when he
can’t keep ongoing physical contact with whatever he’s transmuting anyway. The block starts
layering into coal, the excess oxygen releasing into the air, and while the whole thing isn’t as
fast as Ed’s usual it still comes out as a nice tidy chunk of carbon, edges clean and corners
geometrically perfect.
Ed has to smile: if he’s thinking about Al when he transmutes he tends to channel him; Al
was right when he said he’s the one who’s good at neat details while Ed generally just wants
everything to hurry the fuck up already. Very privately Ed can admit to himself that up close
his gargoyles can be kinda blurry, which is a fact that Al uses mercilessly when he wants to
bitch about Ed’s taste, style, skill, behaviors, sexual preferences and all past and current life
choices.
“What do you mean you transmute together,” Mustang says.
Right, he’s still here. Ed flaps a hand, lifting up the chunk of coal onto his shoulder. “I mean
our arrays overlap all the time. Not on everything,” Ed admits, because okay, when they’re
transmuting anything combustible or reactive or really delicate they tend to stay out of each
other's way. “But carbon’s stable, I could have totally pulled it from your concentration in gas
form.”
“I’ll keep that in mind for next time,” Mustang says, back to sounding amused. He’s a
fucking freak. “Of course atmospheric transmutation is also just another card in your
repertoire.”
This makes Ed stop, put the block back down on the floor and turn to confront Mustang with
his hands on his hips. “Okay, what do you have to be jealous over? Especially now? You’ve
seen the fucking Gate too.”
Mustang blinks. “Did I sound jealous?”
Ed opens his mouth and hesitates. Mustang didn’t sound jealous. Mustang’s never been
jealous - between every report and op dissection and case walkthrough, Mustang’s arguably
the person who knows Ed’s scope best after Al, and he’s never made those little comments
and gestures that Ed’s come to realize he should expect from most other alchemists. Though
honestly, why should he? What Mustang wants out of alchemy, he’s got. There’s nothing in
Ed’s yard that Mustang might be tempted to lean on the fence over.
Doesn’t mean he’s not up to something, though. Ed narrows his eyes. “Then what’s your deal,
bastard?”
Mustang smiles. “I’m simply admiring what a talented subordinate I have, Fullmetal.”
“Gross,” Ed says, picking his coal back up. Then he squints at Mustang. “You gave me food,”
he says suspiciously. “A bunch of times. Good food. And you only lectured me like once.
And that for hardly five minutes. You’re being nice to me. The fuck is going on?”
Mustang looks back him, smile fading but his usual bored bitch look not phasing in to take its
place. It leaves him blank, unreadable, his expression as vacant as a mannequin’s. “You deal
with a lot, under my command.”
He means this whole Promised Day againsies bullshit. Ed bares his teeth, the grin halfincredulous. “And? They don’t call us out for the kiddy shit, General.”
“No,” Mustang says thoughtfully. “No they do not.”
“So don’t start babying me now, bastard, you’ll freak me out. Wait, what the fuck am I
saying? Have whatever the fuck moral crises you want so long as it keeps the food coming.”
Mustang rolls his eyes. “I’m starting to worry about the integrity of my command, what with
the bribery standards for the Fullmetal Alchemist being so low.”
“Bribery? You already owe me three weeks of lunch, and don’t think some day old noodles
counted to your ledger. Callin’ me cheap on top of that, that’s a full month you owe me now,
Mustang.”
“Yes, yes, steak and lobster tail every night and a cabaret show after,” Mustang says, like he
doesn’t think Ed’s gonna hold him to it. “What else do you need for the chromoly?”
Ed resettles his coal on his shoulder. “Chromium I can get from any stainless steel,
molybdenum… probably gonna have to knock some protons offa some silver, that shit’s a
lanthanide.” The fork he’d transmuted at lunch had been almost pure silver; for the amount
they need even one of those chopsticks will do. “You need it now?”
“If what you’re planning with your carbon requires testing, then let’s say tomorrow,”
Mustang says, with a half-lidded look that means you had better do some testing if we’re
going to use it at all. “Hawkeye has other firearms she can use until then, if necessary.”
“Did Havoc bring his shotgun?” Ed says. “Or like… anything?”
“This was initially going to be a wholly diplomatic excursion, with the terrorism entirely
your purview,” Mustang says, dry as sand. “Showing up covered in grenades and body armor
would have sent entirely the wrong message.”
“So… did he?”
Mustang’s mouth curves slightly. “It’s disassembled at the bottom of his pack.”
“Nothing long range though,” Ed observes. “You know how to make explosive rounds? Like
what they use to trigger avalanches up in Briggs?”
Mustang narrows his eyes, thinking. “I imagine I know what you’re referring to, yes.
Hawkeye would know better than I what kind of modifications her weapons can handle,
however.”
“Bear hunting ones, then,” Ed decides. “The cartridge size is practically the same as her
Kerchatka, like this big. If we’re making it from scratch we can make ‘em fit perfect
anyhow.”
“Arming for homunculi,” Mustang says, not a question.
Ed grimaces. “There’s only eight of us. Three alchemists. Hughes can’t really run. If people
get separated, everybody who’s shooting better be able to land a real fuckin’ hit with the first
shot.”
Mustang’s face goes all frosty again, the way it usually does when anyone does a round of
Remember How Hughes Almost Died? “I can provide the charges if you do the casings.”
“Ya,” Ed says shortly, then amends, “Yeah. We can do that tomorrow morning. What are the
wizards doing tomorrow? More sitting around caramelizing in their own idiot juice?”
“We may yet get to see the proposed ambush site,” Mustang says, voice light again, a smirk
growing at the corners of his mouth. “Though perhaps they may get caught up in their own
affairs again. You don’t have to bother with the accent, you know. It’s not as though I’m
unaware of where you’re from, ya?”
Ed glares. What an asshole. “Y’ain’even using it right, Central boy, you can keep East outta
your mouth,” he says, deliberately slurring into full hick. “Lessyou wanme talkin’ right all
the time, brass an’all, leave off all everybody complainin’ to you how nobody can unnerstan
me.”
“I was stationed in East for seven years,” Mustang says, mock offended. “I think I have some
right to the regionalisms. Havoc doesn’t bother with his accent, you know, and no one’s ever
complained about him.”
“Havoc’s from a town with a general store,” Ed says pointedly, dropping the hickness. “They
have a post office. They have a sign with their population on it and it’s three whole digits,
wow. Resembool’s two more hours east of there on the train. Compared to me Havoc doesn’t
have an accent.” Mustang looks like he’s desperately trying not to laugh now; Ed glares,
copies Mustang’s pose and flicks his bangs out of his eyes, taking one hand off the coal to
gesture airily with it. “If I didn’t sound standard from the start your ass would’ve been all
ohhhh, Fullmetal, do at least try to sound some semblance of civilized, we work in an office
not a cattle yard, ah ha ha, what would the brass say. Don’t even try to claim otherwise,
bastard.”
“I would never dream of it,” Mustang says, visibly biting the inside of his cheek. “You are of
course entitled to speak however you wish. If this is how you choose to comport yourself in
professional settings then far be it from me to keep you from cultivating your reputation.”
You wanna be a hick, act a hick, Fullmetal. “Ah, put a cock in it, horsefucker,” Ed grumbles,
turning for the door; if they go any more like this they’ll be stuck in here for another hour and
it’ll be a shouter in no time.
“Anything to keep my people happy,” Mustang says, because he just has to get the last word.
“I’ll be happy when we get to leave,” Ed retorts.
“Indeed. Isn’t it nice when our objectives align?”
“Oh yeah. Super nice for you.” Ed snorts, steadies his coal and heads back for the map room
before Mustang can pull him any further into a verbal slapmatch. The guy might not be a
totally unrecoverable asshole, but that doesn’t mean Ed’s gonna let him get a swelled head
about it.
Chapter End Notes
Ed: yeah this guy’s not a totally unsalvageable fuckhead, it’s whatever
Al: ah. i’ll just go get the betrothal contract, shall i
Chapter 42
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Here.” Al holds both hands out, palm up. “Put your hands on mine. This won’t feel like
anything to you, but it lets me take a closer look and check your lungs and heart.”
“How’s that work?” Black says curiously, as Hairy glances at him and then puts his hands in
Al’s, still wary but willing enough. “Your brother put his hand on Hairy’s head and - well,
didn’t seem to do much, and he said he didn’t find much either.”
Ed must have read Hairy compositionally, though Al can’t imagine what he thought that’d get
him. He very professionally refrains from rolling his eyes. Black’s not looking his way
anyway; “Did it feel like anything?” he asks Hairy.
“No,” Hairy admits, a little grudgingly, looking at Black again and then back to his hands in
Al’s. “Is this alchemy too?”
“Not quite,” Al says. “Ed examined your chemical makeup to make sure nothing was
obviously wrong with your body. I’m taking a look at your qi. Think of it as him taking a
look with binoculars while I’m using more of a microscope. Or… well, a stethoscope. But a
very big one.”
“...What?” Black says confusedly, but Al’s concentrating. His eyes half-close as he sinks
deeper into the qi-sense, automatically falling into meditation breathing to compensate for the
thick, oversaturated feeling of this land’s qi. Hairy and Black are two bright columns right in
front of him, Hairy’s slightly smaller but… heavier, thicker, and very unbalanced. The
miasma around his head is just as bright as the rest of him, but feels very, very off in a way
Al really doesn’t know how to quantify. The disruption to normal qi patterns isn’t the only
thing off about it; tumors feel like that, like eddies and whirlpools where there shouldn’t be
any, the body’s nutrients being diverted off course, but this just straight up feels wrong.
Al’s never had a living qi system ever feel so off like that, even in very sick patients. About
half of any given illness is the body’s own attempts to correct the imbalance, after all.
Medical qi sensing is like any other kind of diagnostic process; you learn what’s “normal”, or
at least the average, and you look for patterns and clues and things that stand out or don’t
quite behave like they’re supposed to. The only way Al can think to describe this, though, is
that it looks like how nausea feels.
And it’s warping the qi flow around it. The good thing, though, is that Hairy’s native qi seems
to be - Al performs the extrasensory equivalent of squinting - diverting around it, rather than
tangling in. The malignancy doesn’t seem connected to the rest of Hairy, but qi flow can
change: pregnancy, for example, causes all sorts of fluctuations in qi paths, and the changes
come in flavors of Permanent, Not Permanent or Sometimes Permanent Depending On The
Individual. If this is another soul attached to Hairy, supported by his own distinct systems,
pregnancy might be the closest parallel to how it’s affecting his qi.
In fact, if Al had to create a somewhat medically accurate analogy, the qi flow kind of mimics
that of maternal-fetal blood transfer through a placenta. Nutrients and waste are exchanged
and the fetus is dependent on the parent’s circulation, but both sets of blood supply remain
distinct and separate. As metaphors go this one is… mildly horrifying, if hopeful in regards
to the possibility of eventual separation, only in this analogy that would happen via a birth
and Al would like his oh so smart brain to stop thinking right now, please. Also, the
synesthetic nausea is starting to give him a headache.
He focuses away from the scar, shifting his attention to Hairy’s lungs and heart. That’s
circulating normally, at least, the heartbeat steady and the breathing even. Al spends a minute
confirming there aren’t any defects in the valves or irregularities in the rhythm and then
spreads his attention back outward, looking for any trace of that same malignant qi anywhere
else on Hairy’s body.
He doesn’t find any, though a final pass determines that the malignant qi occupies a decent
chunk of the front of Hairy’s skull, right in the frontal lobe. If Al recalls his introduction to
neuro studies correctly, that was described as the place that hosts high-level cognitive
controls like emotional regulation, problem solving and personality. He has absolutely no
clue what kind of effects a foreign qi presence might have on the area’s development and
functioning. Wonderful.
“When was the last time you experienced pain in the scar?” Al says, letting go of Hairy’s
hands and using the question as a chance to center himself. The headache is growing; qi here
is really quite intense.
Hairy shifts, face tightening again as he puts his hands back in his lap. “When Voldemort
brought himself back.”
Six count breath in, six count breath out. “And this fits into the pattern, as I understand it?
Proximity to him causes it to flare up?” Al says, briefly factoring some primes; the name one
thing you can see, hear, smell grounding trick doesn’t do him any good when the problem’s
sensory overload.
“And dreams,” Hairy says. “Sometimes.”
“How frequently do you have the dreams?”
Hairy furrows his brow in thought. “It’s… the dreams only really started last year. They’ve
been… every few months, I guess.”
Not very often, then. “What else happens when you experience the pain in your scar?
Dizziness, nausea?” Al asks, his own secondhand nausea slowly fading. “Do you feel
anything anywhere else? Any muscle weakness, tremors, disorientation…”
Hairy hesitates. “Just…”
“Any information can help,” Al encourages.
“In the dreams,” Hairy says, then stops again. “It’s like I’m looking through his eyes. Or - his
snake. It’s like. I am h - his snake.”
Linked consciousness. Maybe. Al can’t say definitively that it isn’t possible, given that Ed
kept his body alive on the other side of the Gate through the link of his blood in the seal that
kept Al’s soul on this plane. This isn’t the same thing - they weren’t exactly sharing
experiences, just nutrients, though how that worked Al still has no clue - but it’s the same
principle. Kind of. More or less.
Either way, what’s important is ruling out purely physical causes and investigating any
potential somatic side effects. “I see. Let’s take a look at your neural activity,” Al says,
pulling a marker from his pocket and beckoning to Hairy, who stares at him like he's just
proposed they do heart surgery with a spatula.
“I’m going to have to draw a little bit on your face,” Al explains, holding up the marker and
smiling in a isn’t-this-silly way to put Hairy at ease. “No rude pictures, I promise. Just setting
up some amplifiers so we can measure your brain waves. Could you take off your glasses for
me, please?”
“You’re gonna draw on his face?” Black says in an intrigued voice as Hairy carefully takes
off his glasses with a dubious look on his face. “Like… runes?”
“Not quite. Typically this is done with electrodes and a recorder,” Al says as he leans in and
carefully sets the marker to Hairy’s right temple. “The test is what’s called an
electroencephalogram. It lets us take a look at the electrical activity in your brain and see if
there are any potential abnormalities - like if your scar is giving off waves of its own,
maybe.” Al completes the array on Hairy’s right side and gently turns his chin with two
fingers to show Black. “Sometimes we don’t have access to equipment, though, so we have
to make our own. This array will communicate with another one here, and one here -” Al
points to Hairy’s other temple, then the nape of his neck - ”and all three of them will inform a
fourth array that’ll let me record a few minutes of his brain activity.”
“Huh,” Black says, squinting at Hairy, who squints back, though probably for actual
ophthalmological reasons.
“You might get a little tickle,” Al tells Hairy. “That’s alkahestric discharge, though, not actual
electricity. Hold your hair back for me?”
Hairy obliges, bowing his head and only wrinkling his nose slightly at the touch of the
marker. “So… how does it get recorded?” Black says. “Is it like… sounds and things?”
“Like this,” Al says, finishing the array on Hairy’s neck and drawing back to pull out his
journal. He flips to a clean page and draws the output array, then scribbles a bunch of ink into
the reservoir space in the circle to give it something to work with. “That’s going to get
transmuted into lines along the graph paper here, according to the electrical output,” he
explains. It’s a very neat little array, economical and perfect for rural medicine, developed by
a team of Imperial Physicians several years ago in Baozhe; Master Yunxian had gushed about
that research team and their work like she was showing off her first grandchild. (She a little
bit was. Her niece is an array design specialist in the Imperial University there and Al has
experienced multiple instances of Master Yunxian cackling over letters that were all
variations on the theme of “Auntie, please stop asking when I will cure cancer.”)
“It’ll make a picture of his brain?” Black says doubtfully.
“Kind of,” Al says, beckoning Hairy to stick his face closer again. “Electrical activity mostly
looks like a bunch of wiggly noodles.”
“And that’ll tell you if his brain’s doing alright, will it?” Black says with some skepticism.
“If the wiggles look right, yes,” Al says placidly. “They’re fairly distinctive wiggles, to be
fair -”
There’s a loud crash from downstairs. Al pauses as they all look around at the closed door,
then resumes drawing. “What was that?” Black says.
Al sighs. “Probably just my brother.”
“Last time it was definitely your brother, and buck beak got out because of it,” Black mutters,
still looking at the door like a dog that’s sensed someone outside but hasn’t yet heard the
doorbell. “Maybe I should go check.”
“If you like,” Al says, completing the array on Hairy’s temple. There’s none of Ed’s
distinctive raspy shouting or any gunfire and a brief focus on qi shows there’s nobody
running downstairs, so whatever it is can’t be that bad. “If it’s anything important I’m sure
someone will come get us. Alright - sit back, relax, close your eyes if you like. This’ll take a
few minutes.”
Hairy doesn’t close his eyes, but after another checking glance at Black he does sit still in the
chair and watch as Al looks at his wristwatch for the time, centers his journal on the little
table and presses his hands to the paper.
The arrays on Hairy’s head begin to glow in tandem with the one under Al’s palms, the
alkahestric circuit completing and creating a field with an almost subaural hum. Black’s
sufficiently distracted by that to turn all attention away from the door. Not that it would
matter if he went; Hairy is the leak, after all, and he’s staying right here. With the array
written out Al doesn’t have to do much besides channel the energy; it’s a very simple
diagnostic in any case, just a measurement, really, and after a few seconds the scribble of ink
in the circle shivers and tiny lines begin to creep across the page.
Al keeps one eye on the graph and one on his watch, though they’re only doing ten minutes
of this test. If anything shows up wonky they’ll do a full hour or even an overnight sleep
reading later - hm, if Hairy’s reporting dreams as symptoms they may do a sleep recording
anyway - but since Hairy hasn’t had any seizures or other related events it’s an outside
chance that the malignancy’s effects are manifesting as significant changes in the brain’s
electric activity anyway.
Al’s eyes unfocus on the paper as he counts off the last minutes of the test, thinking. For the
scar to induce pain only sometimes indicates there is activity that occurs then that isn’t
occurring now. Observing that activity could prove very useful. If there is anything to
observe. Could it be induced? Nightmares, proximity to a powerful terrorist that murdered his
parents - Al could potentially simulate some of the conditions. He could tweak the standard
array used for severe allergic reactions that combines an inflammation nix with an adrenaline
boost in order to open airways and bring down histamine production; the anti-inflammatory
component is distinct enough to remove easily from the array. Inducing an adrenaline jolt and
getting Hairy to hyperventilate would bring his heart rate up and activate the body’s fight or
flight processes, but if there’s some kind of magic trigger involved then all of that could
prove pointless. If he’s going to put stress on Hairy’s body like that on the off chance of more
data then he may as well go directly to simulating the heart attack.
Ed wasn’t wrong about a lot of the medical arrays being isolators and stabilizers - at least, in
the fields Al’s currently studying, which are rarely with problems so straightforward as
lacerations or broken bones. Master Yunxian told him to spend at least a year in cardio and
pathology and really get his diagnostics down before he does a stint in emergency medicine,
because to help the complicated cases - people coming in seizing for no apparent reason,
wasting illnesses with no clear cause, unforeseen complications in surgeries - the best thing
he can offer is an accurate diagnosis, fast. The second best thing is to stabilize the patient and
make sure whatever’s wrong with them doesn’t have a chance to get any worse. And you
don’t have to be an alkahestrist to be a doctor, but an alkahestrist who is a doctor - or training
to be one - always gets the complicated cases by default.
That was Al’s last four months, splitting his rotations between intake clinician and alkahestric
stabilizer on call. He wasn’t blowing smoke up the General’s chimney when he said he was
confident in his ability to resuscitate Hairy if it came to simulating cardiac arrest. Isolate the
sinoatrial node, apply a stasis array, have blood circulators and oxygenators on standby to
feed the brain and any other vulnerable tissues just in case, and secure him through the
inevitable thrashing. Introducing anesthesia would up the risk and potentially complicate
things in unexpected ways, if the malignant qi really is a soul; Al can’t definitively say how
brain waves and altered states of consciousness affect the soul and its connection to the body,
if at all, but it’s not something he’s interested in exploring in this particular situation. Better a
few minutes of intense discomfort than a coma risk.
Not that Hairy needs to know any of this right now. It may not come down to a heart attack at
all. The most important thing is that he doesn’t appear to have any underlying complication
risks and Al can tell the General there’s a viable backup plan.
His wristwatch ticks past the mark, and he withdraws power from the array. Hairy blinks
squintily at him as Black straightens back up from his gradually deepening chair slump. “It’s
done?”
“Yes,” Al says, scanning over the resulting sheet of alkahestrically inked graph paper. No
irregular spikes, no lopsidedness on the graph; nothing standing out, really. “Everything looks
normal,” he says aloud, looking up with a smile for Hairy and Black. “Congratulations, all
your wiggles appear to be in order. Would you like to keep the graph?”
“Er,” Hairy says, looking nonplussed enough to pause in the middle of cleaning his glasses
on his shirt. “No?”
“Is that it?” Black says.
“More or less,” Al says, closing his journal on the page. “This is for brain activity as it
presents outside of any kind of event. Like one of the dreams,” he clarifies. “The brain might
behave differently when your scar hurts or you’re having a nightmare. Since those occur only
every few months, though, and are apparently unpredictable, yes? Then there isn’t much
point in making you sleep with an active array every night on the off chance we might catch
some unusual brainwaves that might not even have anything to do with your scar.”
Hairy and Black both blink at this in remarkably similar ways, though Hairy with
significantly more owlishness. “Then… can I put my glasses back on?” he says after a
moment.
“Yes, of course. You can go wash the marker off too, we’re just about done.”
“With everything?” Hairy says, not hostile anymore but wary just the same.
“For the moment,” Al confirms.
Hairy glances at Black, then back at Al, his expression that of one slogging to the end of a
difficult exam and turning the last page to find out there’s one more question left. “What
about -Voldemort? Your brother said - he’s in my head. That there might be - telepathy.”
“My brother says a lot of things that may not be one hundred percent wholly accurate,” Al
tells him dryly, which is a true statement in that telepathy may not be the right word. “He also
tends to exaggerate.” And if the terrorists are listening in right now, they don’t want to make
them think they’re aware of the leak, or at least that they’re not taking it seriously, given Ed
apparently just went and told Hairy directly.
“Ed’s an idiot,” Al summarizes. “On some occasions more so than others.”
Hairy grins reluctantly at this, and while Black also cracks a smile he still looks concerned as
he glances at Hairy. “But if there is something,” he says. “You can fix it?”
“The investigation is in progress, yes,” Al says, not injecting any particular concern into his
voice; no need to get anyone worked up about any potential outcomes yet. “There’s no point
speculating without hard data. Now that we have Hairy’s base medical information we can do
some more tests on our end, and as soon as we have some results we’ll let you know.”
That seems to be good enough for Hairy and Black both, judging by the Hairy’s glance and
Black’s answering shrug; Al’s kind of unimpressed by the acceptance of such a non-answer
even though it currently works very much in his favor, though he supposes he should know
better by now how easy it is to get people to nod along if you act with authority. “So - I can
go?” Hairy says.
Al nods. “Don’t forget to wash the ink off.”
Hairy twitches and grabs for his glasses in a way that suggests he’s completely forgotten
about the three arrays on his head, then, after yet another glance at Black he makes for the
door. Black nods to Al and stands, moving to follow.
Al stands with him. He knows that the General sent him to conduct this little medical intake
session now so as to get Hairy out of witnessing anything sensitive. There’s going to be a
demonstration match tonight - very soon, as Director Bones seems to have arrived, and here,
presumably, since it’s got all the protective spells and whatnot. With Hairy potentially
suffering from a case of inadvertent terrorist telepathy, it’s probably best that he doesn’t
spectate.
As the only one who can sense qi, though, Al should definitely be there. Time to make sure
Hairy is occupied in a way that doesn’t require Al to babysit.
“Mr. Black?” Al says quietly, as they go through the door.
“Yes?” Black turns to him, polite but still wary.
Al inclines his head at the bathroom down the hall Hairy’s disappeared into and keeps his
voice low. “I think right now is a good moment to spend a little time with him. Catch up,
discuss your future plans, so on. I believe everyone else will be downstairs for the moment,
which will give you some peace and quiet.”
Black looks surprised by this, then thoughtful and almost apprehensive. “You think?”
“Hairy survived an attempt on his life yesterday. I think it would do him good to talk to
someone who cares.”
Black stares for a second, then nods quickly, emphatically. “Right,” he says. “He - right. He’s
- Hairy’s a tough kid, but…”
“He’s going through a lot right now,” Al says, his sympathy not ungenuine. “He clearly
thinks highly of you, and he could use some comfort and support. Even just an opportunity to
complain - if I were him, I’d welcome a chance to vent.”
“And dumbell door hasn’t really let us say anything to him all summer,” Black says, half to
himself. “He’s been stuck in that muggle house. Yeah. Yeah, I’ll talk to him. That’s - yeah.
Thanks.”
“Of course.” Al inclines his head. “I do have a favor to ask, however - do you know where I
could find some chocolate?”
Chapter End Notes
sirius: what’s the diagnosis doc
al: his brain is soul pregnant
sirius: wh -
al: with voldemort
sirius:............... as… the father, or
al, helpfully: as the fetus
harry: [faints]
alternatively
sirius, struggling to remember what he knows of muggle medicine from binging british
house md or whatever on his Muggle Telly in his Muggle Flat that he was very
rebelliously proud of: they beep, right? the machines beep? that’s how u know the
medicining is working??
Chapter 43
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed decides to do the chromoly first, so after dropping off the coal next to a bemused Jones he
detours by the rooms he saw fireplaces in. The four gratings - and two pokers he finds - are
good quality, almost pure iron, so he strips off the rust and hauls it all back to join the coal.
“You’ve got, uh,” Jones says under his breath as Ed swings by, then gestures discreetly at his
own cheek.
“What?” Ed doesn’t have a lot of dexterity in the black gloves - or sensation either, between
the padding and the lead - but he swipes at his face, which makes Jones’ expression do
something gymnastic. Ed scowls. “What?”
Jones sucks his lips all the way in and bites down like he’s trying to keep them from
escaping. “The coal,” he says. “It’s. Ah. You’ve got - smudges.”
There’s that gesture to the face again. Ed growls, lifts the hem of his shirt and scrubs his
cheeks with it until any trace of coal has got to be either wiped off or ground in beyond
helping. “Fuck this, call me Sooty the Panda Face Alchemist and call it a fuckin’ day,” he
mutters, dropping his shirt, which makes Jones bite his fist and look away, shoulders shaking,
as Ed collects up all his crap. He’ll wash his face when he’s done handling coal.
He drags everything back to the empty room across the hall to do his transmutations, because
Baldy already looks way too interested in what Ed’s doing and he’s gonna pass on a snooping
wizard audience, thanks. The floor’s as good a place as any, so he sits down and starts
checking the iron for impurities to get rid of. He knows he saw the specific formulas for
CroMo in steel smelting before; Winry and Granny had a shitton of treatises and manuals and
books on steels and metal alloys for automail grades and he read them all while stuck waiting
for his ports to heal. Grey book? No, brown book, annoyingly wide-spaced type, chromium
for hardenability and corrosion resistance, molybdenum for strength and durability, averages
are 0.3% carbon content by weight, good for case hardening, can handle carburization,
preheat if you’re gonna weld.
Ugh, he’s gonna have to draw out the circle for this one. He doesn’t know what the fuck
Mustang’s gonna do with his array; he’s pretty sure gun barrels have to be carburized, and
presumably Mustang’s array accounts for that, but Ed’s gonna have to check the carbon
content numbers anyway so that whatever he gives him matches the values Mustang’s set.
Okay, chromoly not first; whatever, they don’t need it now anyway.
Thank fuck for Winry, honestly. Ed knows metals, sure, but Win’s a freak who’ll bark out the
make and model of the engine of any car that goes past for fun and works with tiny, tiny, tiny
variations in alloy ratios for medical-grade implants. Automail has always had to be at the
cutting edge of materials research because inside your body is the last place you want
something to start to rust, and while Win does the surgery part of automail just fine the real
pinecone up her ass has always been the mechanical construction.
And it’s because of her three day long rant on experimental optical prostheses that Ed even
knows what the fuck a dielectric mirror is, let alone how to make one.
Ed blows a mental kiss Winwards - if this works, he’ll get to tell her her bitching made him
magic bulletproof - and starts with the carbon first. He claps, presses his hands to the coal
and restructures its allotropic form from crumbly and flammable to rigid and crystalline,
changing the shape as he goes. It’s slow going; shuffling the atoms into the cubic lattice is a
pretty annoyingly intensive in the attention department, but at the end of it he’s got a nice
thick sheet of unpolished diamond, a little rough on the edges but clear through.
Then he claps again, pulling from a much smaller chunk of coal. This one is hard: graphene
wants to layer, but Ed wants a single unbroken sheet of carbon atoms, not graphite. He gets
about halfway through at an absolutely miserable speed before realizing it’d be way easier to
transmute off the top of the finished diamond anyway; this shit’s gonna be have to be
alchemized to the surface in any case - graphene’s soft, floppy, and while it’s tough as shit on
the molecular level it conducts both heat and electricity like fuck. Diamagnetic, too.
Depending on how wizard weaponized zappy shit behaves Ed might accidentally cook his
own arm by blocking, and while diamond transfers heat as well, it’s at least an electrical
insulator.
A graphene coating on the outer surface of a diamond bracer, though - the two layers separate
but in contact - that might interrupt the signal enough to leach some power from any directed
electromagnetic impulse. Light travels at less than half speed passing through crystallized
carbon, what with all the electrons packed so tight in there. With a mirror coating on the inner
surface, whatever light bolt hits the bracer will be slowed enough by the diamond to get
reflected by the dielectric mirror. Add the graphene - potentially even more disruption of the
incoming energy right at the start. If it doesn’t reflect, it can at least absorb and disperse
without doing damage to the bits of Ed underneath.
In theory.
Ed fits his arm onto one of the resulting sheets of diamond, then taps his fingers together
again and wraps it around one forearm, then the other. Flexing to test the fit - rigid, and with
no padding it’s gonna get gross and sweaty, but workable enough - he splits it apart again and
starts adding the graphene. Finishing one takes a little while, long enough that he decided to
leave it off the second one so it can act as control - if a graphene coating turns out to perform
markedly better, he’ll add it to the other bracer.
Then all that’s left is the mirrors. He pulls out his alchemist’s watch and carefully takes a few
milligrams off the solid platinum chain - a gift from Winry for his last birthday, with the
excuse that silver’s not as durable as platinum and not a word said about how platinum isn’t
as durable as, say, steel - then gets to stripping protons.
Platinum and air become tantalum pentoxide, and some random ugly horse-man statue on a
shelf by the windows contributes some silica for the silicon dioxide. Ed smears a couple
intermittent layers of both on the inner surface of the bracers, and then it’s done; here’s
hoping he did the calculations for wavelength interruption correctly. It really is an
uncalibrated hack job if considered from the point of view of professional fabrication, but
considered as the product of one poor alchemist stranded in wizard world with nothing but
his wits to rely on it’s a fuckin’ masterpiece.
Okay. CroMo later; time to test these now. Ed claps the bracers on one more time, then goes
down to the kitchen. “Hey, one of you do a spell at me,” he demands of the wizards there,
which are currently just Smartypants, Miss Redhead and Not A Twin; presumably Breakfast
Lady is off beating the twins with a sock full of radishes or something.
They stare back at him uncomprehendingly, then Smartypants gestures and says some total
gibberish. Ed is abruptly reminded of the fact that he gave his translation rock to Al. He rolls
his eyes and heads right back out of the kitchen - someone’s gotta have a rock around here
somewhere. Wasn’t Havoc down here? Where is Havoc?
Right in the sitting room across the hall, it turns out, playing solitaire. “Yo, gimme your
magic rock a second,” Ed tells him, sticking out his hand and beckoning.
Havoc gives him a mournful look - the cigarette in his mouth is looking distinctly bedraggled
as well; it’s not the first time Ed’s wondered why Havoc doesn’t just put an unsmoked one
back in the carton when he gets interrupted right before lighting up - and produces a rock.
“Cheers,” Ed says, toasting him with it, and heads back for the kitchen. He tosses it onto the
table, interrupting the conversation, and repeats, “Do a spell at me.”
“You could be a little more specific,” Miss Redhead says, narrow-eyed, after a moment
where they all look at the rock and then at him. “What kind of spell?”
“Who cares? Just attack,” Ed says impatiently. “Do whatever the fuck you got me with last
time. You, Smartypants, hit me,” he says, turning to her, and the only warning he gets is her
eyes narrowing before red light is flying at his face.
Ed dodges on reflex, then takes the next one on his right bracer just to find out how bad it’s
gonna suck. It’s the diamond one - and the red light ricochets off his forearm with a sizzle,
the redheads diving out of its way as it slams into the cabinets behind them. “Yes,” Ed hisses
in satisfaction, only Smartypants is on her feet now, and this time she snaps something that
absolutely doesn’t translate before jerking her stick at him.
Ed feels his feet leave the floor.
Oh, he doesn’t like this. His reflexive grab for the nearest chair misses, Smartypants
levitating him too high too fast for him to grab an anchor but also keeping him from the
ceiling, which means he needs to get himself down, hands free, nothing to push off of . All
he’s got is air.
Ed has to stop his hands halfway to reaching for his knives and bury his next three reactions
because they start with chucking a blade into Smartypants’ wand-holding hand and only get
more drastic from there. He’s not gonna draw a knife on a fuckin’ kid just because she got
him when he was explicitly asking to be got. Smartypants isn’t even doing anything else, just
has her stick trained on him, glaring. Which, okay, if she was gonna knock him out again the
smart thing would be to do it already - can she not fire while she’s levitating him?
“Good enough for you?” she says coolly.
“Yeah, almost,” Ed says, then flips in midair. It works - nowhere near as fast, motherfucker,
but it gets his boots to the ceiling. His hair still acts normal, hanging straight down towards
the floor - how the fuck does that work? He doesn’t feel like he’s being hoisted by any
particular part of his body, but if not all of him is behaving the same, then has he been
uncoupled from gravity or what? Some kind of buoyancy booster? Is it a field effect? Why
not his hair then?
Experimentally, Ed pulls a knife from his harness, holds it out over the table and drops it. It
leaves his hand exactly the way dropped objects are supposed to and sticks point first in the
wood, quivering. “Huh,” he says aloud, and manages to point his toes and push slightly off
the ceiling just as Smartypants scowls and jerks her stick. The faint current on Ed drags him
away from his only available touchpoint. “Hah!” Not A Twin says.
Alright, enough of this. Ed twists himself upright again - which involves a fairly strenuous ab
crunch and some wiggling - and claps.
It’s hard - grabbing for tadpoles in a bucket of butter hard, roller skates on an oil slick hard -
but he flails out at all the hydrogen atoms in the room like an alchemical axe murderer until
he’s split enough down the middle to ram a sizable amount of helium up Smartypants’ nose.
It takes a second, but Smartypants’ eyes go wide, her mouth opening as her lungs inform her
that this shit is not oxygen and start to choke, and the slight current on Ed abruptly cuts out.
He ends the transmutation the second he drops, landing with a crash in a crouch on the
kitchen table and reeling a bit with the intensity of the transmutation and the sudden return of
gravity.
Havoc skids into the room, gun drawn, then lowers and holsters it when he sees it’s just Ed
being Ed. “Geez, boss.”
“Sorry,” Ed tells him, jumping off the table and only wobbling a little bit. Double-stage
element swap and manipulation of unpressurized gases, what a fuckin’ mule haul of a
transmutation. His whole brain feels cross-eyed. “Testing some equipment.”
“What did you do?” Smartypants demands, her eyes going even wider when her voice comes
out hamster-squeak high.
Ed can’t help a cackle. “Hah! Don't worry, that’s just a side effect.”
Smartypants coughs, hand to her throat. “A side effect? I couldn’t breathe!”
“Yeah, for like a second. Versus what you did,” Ed counters, gesturing at the cracked cabinets
that caught the red light rebound. “You aim that shit at people?”
“It’s a stunner,” Smartypants snarls, voice starting to return to her normal register. “It
would’ve just knocked you out again.”
The redheads are all glaring at Ed with their sticks in their hands, backed up against the
kitchen cabinets in half-formed ready stances like they don’t know whether it’s worth risking
their wands to step in or not; Ed narrows his eyes at them before giving Smartypants an
unimpressed look. “And the antigravity thing, what was that?”
“What, wing garden levy?” The back half of her sentence is garbled in that way that means
the translator rock is shitting the stage again. “That didn’t leave a scratch on you! You choked
me!”
“Stop being dramatic, all I did was swap your oxygen for helium,” Ed retorts. “ You could
breathe fine, you just weren’t breathing O2 for a minute. You don’t have a scratch on you
either.” He’s not mad about Smartypants firing off something with actual force behind it - he
did tell her to attack, and didn’t give any indication that he would retaliate either. Not that he
knew that he was going to be retaliating, but she signed on for an equipment test, not a spar.
“Thanks.”
Not A Twin looks baffled by this, but Smartypants just bares her teeth at him. “Don’t call me
wiseass.”
“When did I call you wiseass?” Ed demands. “I never fuckin’ - ugh. Smartypants.” First time
he’s said that aloud, isn’t it. “Fucking translation rock again.”
“You just said it,” Not A Twin says.
“Yeah, and I’m telling you, it’s a translation problem. ” Ed throws his hands up and turns to
Havoc, who’s watching this like he can’t decide if he wants to buy show tickets or call the
police just as Mustang, Hawkeye and Bones step through the kitchen doorway.
Mustang’s gaze travels over the pissed off wizard kids, Havoc’s it-wasn’t-me-chief face and
the obvious bootprints in the middle of the kitchen table. “Must you do this in the house,
Fullmetal?” he says in the same way Al talks to cats that ralphed on the carpet, eyes ticking
down to examine Ed’s new bracers.
“Nothing’s broken, no one’s dead, what the hell more do you want?” Ed says crossly,
snagging both translation rock and knife off the table to hand off one to Havoc and holster the
other.
“If you need walkies all you have to do is scratch at the door,” Mustang says idly. “No need
to insult our hosts’ hospitality.”
“I thought you didn’t want property damage,” Ed retorts, but actually going outside is
sounding pretty good right now - aren’t they doing their demo shit outside? Is the dinky little
backyard even gonna be big enough?
“What was happening here, exactly,” Bones says, in that not-actually-a-question way Ed’s
used to hearing from brass.
“He asked us to hex him,” Miss Redhead says immediately.
Ed rolls his eyes. “Equipment test,” he repeats.
Mustang raises his eyebrows. “Any interesting results?”
“Some,” Ed says critically, eyeballing the kids. “Why does some magic make lights and some
doesn’t?”
“I don’t know,” Smartypants says tartly, as if he’d directly addressed her. “How did you
choke me?”
Ed blows out a breath. “I didn’t choke you, I told you -”
“You took away her air!” Not A Twin says.
“No. I just replaced some oxygen. If I pulled her air , the whole local gas composition, her
lungs could tear when they collapsed,” Ed says flatly. The Void Alchemist had done a lot of
that. Human bodies don’t fare well in vacuum. “Swap just the O2 for something inert, your
lungs stay inflated but you feel like you can’t breathe. Most people quit whatever they’re
doing when they feel that.”
Not A Twin doesn’t look like he understood that but definitely like he knows for sure that it’s
Bad; Miss Redhead looks similarly hostile. They don’t fuckin’ understand what bad is. A
little helium, hell - hard as it was to pull off on Ed’s end, Smartypants didn’t even lose
enough breath to stagger.
“Helium?” Mustang says, sounding deeply amused. Ed scowls at him. He’s only transmuted
gases a handful of times in his life and never in the field until now, half because he hasn’t
needed to and half because atmospheric transmutation really is Mustang’s thing and the
bastard would absolutely say something smarmy about being so flattered that the great
Fullmetal Alchemist would deign to copy him.
“Yeah helium.” Ed tries to convey that if whatever brewing remark along those lines makes it
out of Mustang’s mouth he’ll regret it. “It’s inert, it’s harmless to biological tissues, kids at
the balloon stand at every damn carnival and fair huff that shit to make their voices squeaky
just for fun. She’s fuckin’ fine.”
That’s more for Bones’ benefit than Mustang’s, because while she’s got a familiar
Hawkeyesque stoneface going she’s definitely eyeing Ed and the crystalline bracers on his
arms with a kind of vague disapproval. “I’m good to go,” Ed tells Mustang. “Are we doing
the demo outside or what? We’re not leaving the house for it, are we?”
“Yes, best to take this outdoors,” Mustang says dryly. “Would you like to join us, Madam?
While we’re waiting for the others we may as well see if the yard will suit. You as well,
Captain,” he adds, and Havoc falls in behind them as Bones nods and turns for the door.
Ed follows them out of the kitchen, leaving the kids behind, and allows a little grin to himself
as he looks down at his bracers. At least he can tell Win her rants pay off. He’s gonna call her
the minute they get back to a phone line that can connect to Rush Valley and bitch for hours.
Chapter End Notes
ed: ok wiseass fuckin hit me
hermione, having worn the shiny off this blond buff gremlin and igniting with all the
turbines of rage that made her punch out malfoy instead of just hexing him: M Y P L E
A S U R E
Chapter 44
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s dusk outside, the sky gone blue-black and the stars not quite yet starting to come out. The
backyard is fenced in, full of hedges and weeds and some trees by the back, everything
overgrown and gloomy; the square yardage is about that of the house, which isn’t all that
large, comparatively, and for any kind of spar with spectators it’s gonna be kind of a tight fit.
Ed’s not the only one thinking that, because Bones frowns around and says, “There should be
an extension charm in place. Most of these old houses do, and I know for a fact my mother
always complained about the Blacks always throwing their snooty London garden parties….
Step back a bit.”
That’s to Mustang, who doesn’t hesitate and neither does Hawkeye or Havoc. Ed backs up
with them as Bones spreads her arms like an orchestra conductor. “Let’s see if I remember
this correctly,” she says, then waves her stick all dramatic and says a bunch of nonsense.
The yard… unrolls. Hedges slide back, benches pop out of the grass like curly wrought iron
mushrooms, lampposts sprout from the fuckin’ ground - and then light themselves. It’s
suddenly brighter and brighter as strings of glowing lights unfurl overhead, bringing the dusk
back up to something more like late evening. The backyard shuffles and skips into a space
four times its previous size, still overgrown and weedy but now looking like at one point it
had been a carefully maintained fancy rich person lawn and garden.
“That’s better. Needed a bit of light in any case,” Bones grunts.
Ed and Havoc exchange staring looks, then look at Mustang and Hawkeye, who are pointedly
not exchanging any looks at all. “Perceptual filter,” Ed says aloud, as a kind of verbal selfreassurance. “Just like the house was.” Though if they can teleport, who’s to say mass
compression and-or spacetime folding are off the table?
Bones is once again looking at Ed in that nebulously disapproving way, which, sheesh, give
her some uniform blues and she’d fit right in back home with the brass. Whatever uptalk
Armstrong told her (Ed will never, ever, ever get over Livvie. Never. That’s like giving a pet
name to an erupting volcano) it’s clearly not enough to mitigate the reality of Ed. “Will that
do for your needs?”
Mustang glances at Hawkeye, who nods, then Ed, who shrugs. “Anything unsuitable for this
space would be too impractical to demonstrate in any case,” Mustang says. “And as we all
seem to be familiar with firearms I do not think we will need to showcase any of those
properties either.”
“That’s your muggle guns, is it?” Bones says. “I hear they get the job done, at least. Is it true
you need to wear earmuffs to use them?”
“Ear protection is not necessary but extremely advisable,” Hawkeye says as Ed serves a
wide-eyed look Mustang’s way as discreetly as he can manage. “Gunshots are very loud,
especially in close quarters.”
That does not sound like this particular wizard is ‘familiar with firearms’. Still, if this
particular wizard can fucking collapse and expand space on command, why the fuck would
she ever need to bother with learning about something as dinky as guns. Ed’s gonna have to
ask about that shit as well as any weaponized applications along with the mind control,
because if somebody attacks with terrain manipulation that warps space, teleporting might be
the only way to get away.
All the more reason to figure out the magic cancellation array. Ed’s probably gonna drop like
a rock tonight given how much alchemy he already threw around today, but he’s definitely
seeing some lab work all nighters in his very near future if the magic-qi-etcetera turns out to
be harder to corral than it seems.
“I see,” Bones says. “To each their own, I suppose.” She eyeballs Ed again. “I hope what you
were testing wasn’t those knives of yours. We had an incident a few years ago with a mad
muggle in an orange jumpsuit hurling those things every which way. Bounces right off a
Protego.”
“Nnnnno,” Ed says, because he knows that admitting to even considering winging a knife at a
teenage girl is unsociable behavior. “That was to help me test gravity.”
Bones looks like that is a statement one hundred percent not worth digging into, which means
Ed’s said the right thing. Mustang also looks like he would rather nobody start exploring that
topic, because he glances at Havoc. “Fetch Hughes and the rest, will you?”
“Yes chief,” Havoc says morosely, turning back to the house with a distinctly unexcited set to
his shoulders. Mustang must have finally told him about all the fresh new Promised Day shit,
Brand New Wizard Flavor. Probably clapped him on the back and said try not to get
paralyzed this time, ha ha!
“Don’t bother,” Bones says briskly, jerking her chin up at the house. “I may as well go break
up that lot. Arthur Weasley’s a good Chap but they’ll be at it for hours if he starts asking
questions about how all your thingamajigs work and Albus only enables him. If mad eye
comes out tell him to stay put, I’ll get everyone down here.”
“...Why not,” Mustang says, as Ed realizes mad eyes is what they call Pirate. Chances are
that’s yet another translation chunder, but if it’s not, how wild would that be. Like if
everybody called him Tin Leg Ed. Or Titanium-Aluminum-Vanadium Leg Ed, if they’re
being formal.
… well, fuckin’ Bradley did name him Fullmetal, and cornered Ed into just being grateful he
hadn’t tallied up the number of limbs and laughed his little homunculus ass off while writing
out the State awards you the title Half Metal AHAHAHAHAHAHA on the fucking certificate.
What an asshole.
“Go anyway, Captain, see if the Colonel needs any help carrying anything,” Mustang says,
and Havoc salutes sarcastically and lopes off after Bones.
Al comes out of the back door as they head towards it, hands full of Ed’s original bracers.
“Hello, ma’am - hey, Captain,” he nods at them distractedly, and for a second Bones looks
like she might want an introduction, but Al’s heading straight for Ed with a very Target
Acquired look and generally even bar bouncers and feral goats know to get out of the way of
that.
“The boy?” Mustang says as Al passes him.
“Upstairs with Black,” Al says. “I set them to having a heart to heart together. I’m keeping an
eye on things, if their qi moves downstairs I’ll know about it. Here,” he continues, sticking
Ed’s bracers into his hands, then, “Eat,” and shoves something brown and rectangular at Ed’s
mouth.
Ed balks automatically before catching the whiff of chocolate. He snatches the bar in his
teeth, tipping his head back to start crunching it down hands-free. “Whadda fuck?” he asks
thickly around it as Al puts a hand on either side of his neck, cane hanging from his wrist.
“Hold still,” Al orders. “Apparently people get hospitalized for dementer exposure.”
“Wha’? Why?”
“I don’t know how biologically instantiated the effects are,” Al says disapprovingly. “But
since the first aid is chocolate, I’m assuming a serotonin deficiency and potentially problems
producing endorphins. Watch your mood for the next two weeks.”
“Choco’wat’?” Ed says incredulously.
“Yes. Chew more before you swallow.”
“I know how’woo eat,” Ed complains. Hospitalization? Sure, that whole shit had felt bad, as
rough a bad day as Ed’s ever had compressed into thirty minutes of pigshit, but not, like,
check yourself in for observation bad. “Thof’ kids’re fine,” he points out, swallowing his
mouthful with some effort.
“I don’t know their baseline, but so far it seems to me that they’ve been doing a lot of rash,
emotional decision-making,” Al says pointedly. “You don’t need me to tell you what trauma
and stress do to emotional regulation and cognition.”
“Yeah, makes you smarter,” Ed says, cracking a chocolatey grin. “Ow!”
“Be good to your brain tissue,” Al says sternly, absolutely unapologetic for tweaking Ed’s
ear. “You seem to be doing okay even under stressful conditions, but we don’t want to
assume there’s nothing when there could be something.”
“Thanks. I got lotsa practice. Ow!”
“Take this seriously or I will,” Al threatens, letting go of Ed’s neck and stepping back,
apparently satisfied that Ed’s qi isn’t melting out his nostrils or whatever. “I know lots of
ways to cheer you up.”
“Okay, okay.” Ed frowns, licking his teeth for the last of the chocolate and swiping the back
of his glove across his mouth. “Now I’m thirsty.”
Al sighs, claps and waves his hands sarcastically over Ed’s head. Ed tips his head back quick,
mouth open to catch the water droplets created by Al’s condensation array like catching
snowflakes; naturally he gets splashed all over his nose. “You’re so embarrassing,” Al says
resignedly as Ed sputters. “Wash your face too, you’re covered in yuck. What did you do to
your bracers? Is that diamond?”
“Ya, and it works great ,” Ed says, muffled a little by how he’s using the hem of his shirt
again to scrub his face.
“And how does it work, exactly,” Al says, inveterate skeptic.
“Reflects their magic shooty shit. The ones that look like light behave like light, to an
extent,” Ed says, dropping his shirt and holding up his graphene-free arm. Mustang and
Hawkeye, who had backed off when Al started medicating him like a truculent sheep, deem it
safe to approach now that he isn’t literally being force fed and meteorologically watered. “I
told Smartypants to hit me, and one of her shots got reflected here - left a scorch, look at that
- but hit the kitchen cabinets and landed the actual effect there.”
“There are those that don’t behave like light?” Mustang asks, examining the small scorch
mark on Ed’s arm.
“Yeah, she hit me with one of those next, just said some words and suddenly I’m levitating.
The girl’s got good instincts,” Ed adds grudgingly, because on the post-mortem he can see
that Smartypants didn’t waste any time on another light attack when she saw he could dodge
or reflect it, she just went for something completely different that would seriously impair his
ability to evade her and disorient him to boot.
“Levitating,” Mustang repeats.
“Yeah, whoopsie doodle and up I went. That’s why the helium,” Ed adds sourly. “She had to
concentrate to keep me up there. Which implies a beam effect, actually, or a field, just not in
visible light…” The spells that look like lights leave their sticks and that’s it, one and done,
but the other stuff requires active maintenance in energy and focus, maybe? Kind of like the
difference between activating an external array drawn on something and using yourself as an
array with all the variables potentially in flux. If that’s even how the magic works.
Al picks up one of Ed’s forearms and examines the bracer, returning him from the
speculation. “One good hit and these are going to shatter,” Al points out, hefting Ed’s arm
demonstratively. “And you don’t have any padding or anything. Why not just do a mirrored
diamond layer on top of your steel ones? That way when it cracks you’ll still have the metal
underneath.”
Ed stares at him. Like, obviously Al’s smart, but sometimes it really hits that he’s so smart.
“You’re a genius.”
Al sighs. “So they tell me. You’d have better coverage if you just make a shield out of this
stuff.”
“Less maneuverability, same fragility problems,” Ed counters, because some of Al’s solutions
still orient around being two meters tall and incapable of tiring. “Metal backing on a shield
doubles the weight problem and I’m only using these if I’m fighting close up anyway.
Midrange it’s gonna be throwing up walls and other terraforming shit.”
“As with dealing with any ranged weapon,” Mustang says.
“Yeah. If those shitass wood cabinets in the kitchen can absorb that kinda crap then dirt
definitely can.”
“Yeah.” Al blows out a breath. “Cancellation array’s still the best bet.”
“Obviously,” Ed agrees. “But! This definitely proves we can treat magic like light. When it
comes to the calculations, I mean.”
“Mm.” Al leans on his cane, thoughtful, then looks at Mustang. “What are we giving them?”
“They are our allies,” Mustang says, somewhat dryly. “We are dependent on them in more
than a few key ways and we do, of course, want to see them succeed. This is a chance for us
to learn more about each other and determine the scope of their capabilities as well as how
they might supplement ours.” His face goes even further into his press-darling decoratedveteran you’re-gonna-vote-for-me-as-soon-as-we-have-elections smile. “You’re here as a
medical advisor, of course. If anyone shows interest in your healing techniques I don’t see
any harm in explaining the basics.”
No need for the wizards to learn all the ways alkahestry isn’t about patching booboos and
flowing with the mystic currents of the world. “I’ll stay in a corner and keep an eye on qi,
then,” Al says, then looks back at Ed. “You should probably go stretch.”
“Nag,” Ed says comfortably, but hey, that is a good idea. If he’s trying to see what kinda
combat styles they’re working with chances are he’s gonna have to at least run around the
yard a bit and present a moving target.
He hefts his metal bracers consideringly, but Al takes them back out of his hands. “I’ll do
these,” he says, beckoning for the diamond. “I’m better with details anyway. Go on, shoo.”
Ed decides not to fight it, clapping to unseal the carbon around his arms and handing it over
to Al. Besides, the back door is opening again and Jones and Arget are coming through,
Hughes and Havoc behind them. They aren’t followed by any wizards, so presumably they’re
all off having a handholding ceremony of vigilante togetherness or whatever. Which Mustang
really should have done their own version of, because it’s not like the guy to wade into so
much as a kiddy pool without an action plan. Unless he’s already talked with everyone else
and it’s just Ed who’s been left to wing it.
Which proves Hawkeye’s theory - shared with Ed one evening when they’d both had to stay
late at the office obfuscating a couple of paper trails - that Mustang can be taught. Not like
giving Ed orders works out for anyone anyway.
Ed grins to himself, rolls out his shoulders, crosses one leg over the other and bends down to
press his hands to the ground, stretching his abbreviated hamstring first. His hair takes the
opportunity to get in his mouth and remind him it’s still fuckin’ everywhere, so he takes
advantage of being upside down to put it up in a high tail. Turning his head to the side shows
him Mustang and Hughes stepping aside to do the thing where they stand too close with their
arms crossed and mutter bitchily to each other; a moment later Hawkeye steps away from
Arget and joins them, and their huddle becomes an equilateral triangle of scowls. Havoc’s
finally lighting up a couple yards away from them, looking like he wishes there was way
more than one cig in his mouth.
Ed switches legs and looks over at Al, who’s got both sets of bracers in one hand and is
cautiously examining one of the magic new ironwork benches for bird shit and other
impediments to sittability. “Don’t bother,” Ed calls to him through his own knees, still upside
down. “Those weren’t there five minutes ago. Hey, do they look weird to you? Like,
y’know.”
He sticks one hand out to the side and wiggles his fingers to helpfully illustrate qi. Al looks at
him, then at the bench with redoubled skepticism. “Everything does,” he says, disgruntled but
deciding it can’t be that bad given he sits down. “At least you didn’t make these.”
“Hey!”
Al sniffs as he puts his palms together and lays them on the bracers in a light crackle of
discharge. “This house really doesn’t need any more ugly decor that’s somehow flamingly
aggressive and depressing at the same time.”
Ed makes a disgusted noise and pointedly turns away from Al, which gives him a view of
Jones, upside down. Upside Down Jones looks at him switch to stretching his adductors, then
comes over and starts doing the same.
Ed grunts in greeting. “Hey,” Jones returns, and they’re quiet for a bit until Ed switches legs
again. “You’ve worked in Security for a while now, right?”
Ed squints at him from around his kneecap. “Yeah?”
“What’s the secret to skipping the natsec staff briefings? I don’t think I’ve seen you at any of
them.”
Ed grins. “I’m field investigations, I don’t get dragged to those unless I’m in Central.” And
since those briefings are on a regular weekly schedule, Ed always makes sure to be out of
Central unless he absolutely can’t avoid it. He can speed-read the notes from that shit in a
fifteenth the time it takes for them to say it and that’s the way it should be. “Or unless
Mustang’s feeling a real asshole.”
“That bad?” Jones says jokingly.
“Eh,” Ed says, more meditative. “It’s a lot better now that he’s stopped being all ‘why was
the mayor found naked and glued upside down to the water tower, Fullmetal?’ and ‘can you
explain why I’ve received seven letters of complaint regarding the destruction of priceless
historical monuments, Fullmetal?’” Ed rolls his eyes. “Now he’s just like, ‘fuck it up,
Fullmetal’, and thank fucking god. The micromanaging wasn’t doing him any favors.”
“Micromanaging,” Mustang says from behind them, sounding kind of strangled.
Ed straightens up directly into a backbend so he can grin at Mustang upside down. “Yeah,
you know,” he says, enjoying the stretch. “Where were you on the night of the thirteenth,
why didn’t you call the second your train pulled into town. Back it up, I’m coming up.”
Mustang grimaces at him and steps back as Ed kicks up and over to a handstand and then
back to his feet. “If you had been capable of submitting reports with slightly more
information content than the average mud pie, I would not have needed to expend resources
to ‘ micromanage’.”
“Whatta’re you talkin’ about, mud pies are fulla information,” Ed informs him. “You can
spend a whole day just learning about mud. Just ‘cause you don’t understand the data doesn’t
mean it’s not in there.”
“You used to write reports entirely without punctuation or capitalization on the justification
that it ‘saved time’.”
Ed narrows his eyes. “You’re right, that did save time. I should go back to that.”
“Let me just go start drinking,” Mustang mutters. “Sergeant, Corporal? A moment?”
There’s the handholding moment. Hughes chivvies everyone closer, away from the back door
of the house, and Mustang gives them all a round of eye contact. “This is mostly going to be
Fullmetal and Colonel Hawkeye’s show, as alchemical generalist and security specialist, but
if anyone has a question for our wizard counterparts, don’t hesitate to ask it. On our end,
however, let’s allow some discretion in volunteering information, hm?”
“That means let Roy answer shit,” Hughes translates. “He can lie better than all of us put
together. If you got something urgent, sign it or come and whisper to me or Colonel
Hawkeye, but if it can wait let it wait.”
“That’s not to say we shouldn’t share anything,” Mustang says. “We are friendly, open,
honest people, after all.” Havoc snorts. “We want them to be friendly, open, honest people in
return. They, however, are civilians. You all have clearances. You know how to talk to
civilians.”
“If you’re unsure about something, better to sit on it,” Hughes says. “Let’s not have to try and
unspill any beans.”
“As you know, the wizards have mentioned certain weaponized techniques that it would be
best for us to experience in a controlled environment, as we’ll likely encounter them in the
field,” Mustang continues. “Fullmetal is the usual guinea pig of choice -”
“You're welcome,” Ed grumbles.
“- but some of these are not going to be optional. Our objective above all else is to every of
us return home in one piece, and the more prepared we are the better.”
“I know we don’t say the nasty V-word in the army, but seriously, better to volunteer and see
if we can handle their mind control or whatever than find out in a live situation,” Hughes
says.
“For reference, that’s one of the non-optional ones,” Mustang says dryly.
“Yeah, we’re all gonna have to do that, it’ll be buckets of fun.” Hughes pushes up his glasses.
“Other than that, watch. Listen. We’re all going to be writing up reports before we can go to
bed tonight. See, didn’t I tell you field work is exciting and glamorous? Aren’t you glad you
were assigned on this op? Of course you are. Alright, my lovelies, let the circus commence!”
“And here come the clowns,” Ed says under his breath as the back door opens again and
wizards start coming through. Al, of course, elbows him.
Chapter End Notes
bones: yeah we had to apprehend some chap named naruto a few years back but it turns
out he was just lost on his way to a different crossover
bones: some place called comicon
Chapter 45
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s not that Sirius doesn’t think talking to Harry is a good idea, or that he doesn’t want to. He
just doesn’t quite know how to start. Alphonse Elric made it sound so easy and
straightforward when he said it - let him know you care. Comfort and support, right. What
Sirius associates with comfort and support is mostly a mug of Firewhiskey and the shoulder
of a friend to keep you upright on your way home, but somehow he’s pretty sure that’s not
what he meant. He can’t give Harry Firewhiskey. Not for another few years, anyway.
He ends up beckoning Harry back to Buckbeak’s room, because Harry likes Buckbeak and
it’s about time to check on him anyway. Something for them to do while Sirius cobbles the
right words together to let Harry know - well. That he’ll always have a place with Sirius, at
the very least.
Harry seemed excited about living with him, which is a hot, revolving coal of a feeling in
Sirius’s ribcage. He can’t cock this up. He’s going to have to talk to Moony - shit, he really
needs to talk to Moony, given he sort of promised to move them to another country if that’s
what it took to get custody. Hell, werewolves are barely known as a phenomenon in Greece;
if they empty the Black vaults and sell whatever’s left they should have a nice tidy sum,
enough to set them up somewhere decent on one of the islands. Sirius can talk him around.
Moony likes the sun, and there’s all that history and archaeology and whatnot there lying
around.
Buckbeak is in a decent mood when they enter, shaking his wings at them and stretching
luxuriously before returning to his favored leisure activity of shredding the daylights out of
the Black master bed. Sirius experiences deep spiritual satisfaction every time Buckbeak
depreciates several thousand Galleons off the 12th century hand-carved heirloom via fresh
clawmark, and he gets the feeling Buckbeak can tell. He is very generous with his clawing.
Harry’s still wiping at his smudged temples and dripping around the hairline from washing
off the runes Alphonse Elric had drawn, but he goes directly to Buckbeak and bows.
Buckbeak heaves himself up and bows back, rattling his beak and preening when Harry pets
his neck. “D’you ever go outside with him?” Harry asks, craning to look back at Sirius over
his shoulder.
“Used to,” Sirius says. “We stayed near Badcall for a bit - remote old place, it’s up on the
coast way up north. Lots of islands about, so he could have a bit of a fly sometimes. Though
it was a devil keeping him off the muggles’ sheep.”
Harry grins a bit, scratching under Buckbeak’s chin. “Bet that was fun.”
“It was,” Sirius admits. “I’d go dog and chase him all over the place while the sheep tried to
headbutt us both. Mad little bastards. I’d have let him eat them all if it wouldn’t have the
muggles up in arms. Those farmers up there don’t have any sense of humor.”
Summering in Scotland isn’t bad at all, objectively, even when on the run, and the few
months they’d spent living up there - even with a hippogriff to corral - felt too short by far.
The place itself was remote, muggle, and rent by the week; it was also named Twafflebury
Cottage, which Moony would sigh over ever time Sirius cackled like a hag. He did not
entertain Sirius’s very brilliant suggestions of setting up their next outlaw hideout at
Wetwang, Cock Bridge or Sandy Balls, though he did charm a muggle postcard to flash
Greetings From BITCHFIELD/COCKSHUT/PENISTONE in turns, even if he did
consequently refuse to let Sirius mail this delight to Harry.
“Would you…” Harry trails off, looking down at where he’s scratching at the joint of
Buckbeak’s wings. “I mean. If you’d like to go back. I could come with you, if you want.
Help take care of Buckbeak.”
“Absolutely,” Sirius says, the hot-coal feeling expanding upwards to join the balloons of
relief and joy. “Anytime. He doesn’t belong in this rotting dump, yeah? And neither do we.”
Harry grins as Buckbeak chirps and rattles his beak some more as if agreeing, and Sirius has
to grin too. “I was serious about Greece, you know,” he tells Harry, maybe speaking a little
too fast but needing to get it out in as many of the right words as he can. “We’re going to try
and clear my name, obviously, but - that could take a while, and in the meantime, well, we’ve
got to live somewhere, right? I’m not the Secret Keeper of this place, we don’t have to stay
here - and hell, I bet me and Moony could figure out how to put a proper Fidelius on
wherever we end up. Might not have sheep to chase, and it’d be away from your friends, but -
what do you think?”
“I think that’s brilliant,” Harry says without hesitation, looking up at Sirius with such a
painfully familiar face - James’ shining excitement, Lily’s smiling eyes. “I’m away from Ron
and Hermione in summer anyway, and holidays too mostly. And they can come visit - right?”
“You bet,” Sirius, practically floating in happy relief. Would it be alright to hug Harry again?
He seemed to like hugs; Sirius is about to risk it when the door opens.
It’s Ron and Hermione and Ginny and Fred and George, and they all zoom into the room at
light speed and cluster around Harry with Ron in the lead. “Harry!” Hermione exclaims.
“What happened? What did they do? You look -” she glances him over, stumbling slightly in
confusion. “- damp?”
Harry grimaces and scrubs at his temple. “Yeah, Elric… wrote stuff on me,” he says. “Circles
with… little letters and things. Runes. It didn’t hurt,” he says hastily to Hermione’s
increasingly intense look. “He - measured my brain? Er.”
“Humongous, is it?” Fred or George says.
“Spiffing colossal?”
“Biggest he’s ever seen,” Sirius assures them, holding his hands apart demonstratively.
“Shut it, you lot,” Ginny says, elbowing to the front. “Is that it, Harry? Did he say anything
about Voldemort?”
Harry glances at Sirius, which Sirius isn’t quite sure how to interpret. But whatever Harry
sees must satisfy him because he says, “He didn’t find anything for sure, but he said my brain
is - normal. So.”
“He didn’t seem worried about it,” Sirius offers. “Can’t be too bad.”
Harry nods in a not-quite-convinced sort of way but pushes his glasses up with an expression
that says he’s going to make the most of things. “What about you? Did you get your wands
back?”
“Yeah, Bill talked that git around,” Ron says. “Would’ve looked bad if he didn’t give them
back, honestly. And then they all went out back and Bones with them, and then the big Elric
came and asked Mum for chocolate and then went out too so we figured you were done.
Everybody started coming downstairs, so -“
“We told Mum you were cleaning up after Buckbeak, and she told us to go help you,” Ginny
says brightly. “Because she knows how smelly and unpleasant we think it is. Or loudly
complain it is, anyway.”
“Yeah, after bellowing our curls straight,” Fred or George says, wincing.
“Steaming mad, she was.”
“Told us she should’ve let Elric keep our wands and that another stunt like that would have
her taking them from us herself.”
“Dad was just really disappointed,” Ron says. “And then asked us about how it was riding the
Pipe.”
“The Tube,” Ginny corrects.
“Yeah, that.”
“Lucky brats,” Fred or George says. “We do all the work for you -”
“- and you get off without even a hiding.”
“Should have you hung by your ankles, Ronniekins -”
“Hey! You were the ones who decided to grab Elric -”
“Yeah, mate, I’m with him on that one,” Sirius says, because from what he understands of the
situation that had been kind of a blunder. “What were you thinking? I mean, sneaking out is
one thing, but taking that bloke with you?”
“If he was with us, he couldn’t go tell anyone who’d stop us,” Fred or George points out.
Sirius stares at them. “What about after?” he says. “What was the getaway plan?”
Fred and George look at each other and shrug. “Run away?”
“Deny it ever happened?”
“These Unplottables aren’t Filch, mates,” Sirius tells him, because that stuff only works
because professors hardly listen to Filch and he can’t hobble too fast with his bad feet when it
came to catching students red handed. “You can’t Obliviate them either, they’ll know
something’s wrong. And they’re a little hex-happy, this lot - you’ve got to be a little smarter
about how you do things, yeah?’
Ron and Harry nod and even Fred and George look vaguely like they agree; Sirius is vaguely
amazed to find he’s just given a lecture on good behavior like some kind of authority figure,
but he figures James will forgive him this trespass since it’s for the sake of his sprog.
“The important thing is we’ve got the cloak,” Ginny says. “We’ll have to sneak past Mum
downstairs, but she’s in the kitchen, we can get past.”
“The cloak won’t fit all of us,” Hermione says in the businesslike tones of a girl who knows
she’ll be one of the people under it regardless. “Getting into the backyard might be tricky,
they’ll notice a door opening and closing… Ginny, what if we pretend like Crookshanks got
out and you’re chasing him, and we go after you?”
“Wait,” Harry says. “Mad Eye. If he’s there, his eye can see through the cloak.”
Ron hisses through his teeth in disappointment but Hermione’s expression just goes militant.
“We’ll have to hide behind something else, then,” she says. “Something he can’t see through.
Whatever they’re doing, it involves Harry, and we need to know what it is. We have to get in
the yard.”
“Or you could just… look out the window,” Sirius says slowly.
They all stare at him. Then they all rush to the window he’s pointing at. It looks out on the
backyard - which startles him for a second, because he hasn’t seen it unrolled since dear old
Mum kicked it - but offers a clear view of the Unplottables, ranged in little clusters around
the yard.
“Brilliant,” Ron breathes. “We don’t need the cloak at all!”
“We would have needed it eventually,” Hermione points out, eyes rapt on the blue uniforms
below.
“Yeah, but for now we’ve lucked out for once. Fred, George, give us an ear, would you?”
Fred and George glance at Sirius, who shrugs. “Hey, I’m all for you lot being in the know,”
he says. “You-Know-Who’s after Harry. Doesn’t do anyone any good to keep him in the dark.
You two are adults in any case, Weasley and Weasley, what are you looking at me for?”
They grin at him and simultaneously pull tangles of fleshy-colored string from their pockets,
nudging the other kids aside to get at the window. Sirius looks back out over their heads in
time to see Elric - currently doing some strange upside down contortion on the ground - come
up backwards into an effortless handstand, golden ponytail brushing the grass.
That’s one harpy-voiced shouty little git but Merlin, he’s fit. Sirius wonders if Moony thinks
so too. Him and Prongs back in school went through a phase of loudly proclaiming their
‘type’, but Moony never really did and in any case Sirius’s was invariably a load of bollocks
given it had more to do with cup size than any other human characteristic. That’s a bit sad,
probably. Hard to tell with most things being a bit sad lately. Or a lot sad. Or bloody fucking
awful. Things being a bit sad is actually bloody great, comparatively.
Maybe Moony likes blonds, is the point. Sirius hopes not. He looks terrible as a blond.
He refocuses on the yard just as Dumbledore and Bones appear, filing out of the back door
followed by the other Order members. He’s got to admit he’s curious about what exactly the
Unplottables will show, given the wandless magic they throw around and whatever explosive
thing Mustang did to the boggart. Elric destroyed dementors, after all. Maybe he’s going to
show everyone how.
Chapter End Notes
the Kidz: we're gonna spy on the order real quick mmkay
sirius, who has Not Been Told that harry does indeed have a brain full of Voldemort: o
yeah totally go ahead lmao. feel fuckin free. pshyeah. this cannot backfire. i'm not like
other moms, I'm a cool mom
Chapter 46
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Bones leads the wizards out with Beardy and Lemons in tow, Pirate stumping along behind
him with Ponytail, Baldy and Mustache. There’s other ones with them too, a tall dark guy and
the pink-haired lady who’d helped Baldy interrupt Ed’s street food dinner yesterday. The top
hat guy who was so fuckin’ gung ho about werewolves is also in tow, along with a lady
around Hawkeye’s age that Ed doesn’t recognize. No sign of Breakfast Lady or the twins;
them fucking around with kidnapping might’ve given her the excuse she wanted to keep their
oh-we’re-adults-already noses out of the vigilante business.
Ed wants to stamp that with a big ol’ definitive good, but those little fucks are probably
gonna try and fuck around on their own some more without active supervision. Breakfast
Lady better be sitting on them, for all their sakes, because where the fuck they’ll teleport next
and who the fuck they’ll yoink along with them, Ed does not want to find out.
Al whistles low through his teeth, and Ed turns and catches the bracers tossed at him. A clap
to get them back on his arms and all of the wizards are looking at him again, expressions
ranging from curiosity to distaste - though to be fair that last one’s all Lemons. What a
relentless little joy he is. Ed resists the urge to stick out his tongue at him as the wizards all
gather around in front of them in a semicircle.
“Director, Moody Albus,” Mustang greets all friendly. “Hello everyone. Thank you for taking
the time to indulge us - it’s late, I know, and hopefully this won’t take too long. We both have
questions as to how our respective groups operate, I think, and would benefit greatly from
sharing methods and techniques.”
Mustang steps back a little, leaving Hawkeye and Ed at the forefront of the wizards’
attention. “Colonel Hawkeye is a firearms expert and tactician, and Lieutenant Colonel Elric
is a State Alchemist. Both have extensive combat experience and have volunteered to
demonstrate that which would benefit from practical example. As specialists in their fields
they also have questions that we hope you can answer, as well as potentially demonstrate in
turn.”
Hawkeye inclines her head at the wizards and Ed gives a sarcastic wave. “Of course,” Beardy
says. “On our part Amelia and Alastor are our Aurors, and sever us is an accomplished
duelist and has made a study of spells and maneuvers favored by death eaters.”
Because he used to be one of them, ha ha, Ed doesn’t say aloud as Beardy gestures to Bones,
Pirate and Lemons. “How would you like to begin?”
Hawkeye doesn’t step forward, but she does the spine-setting thing that makes everyone in
eyeshot start paying attention. “Our objective for this exchange is to gain an understanding of
each others’ tactics and capabilities as well as gather information on the methods favored by
the enemy,” she says in her presenting-to-the-Council voice, formal and controlled with a
barely detectable undertone of keep up, idiots . “As we use very different tools and systems in
combat, starting with the basics would be best. Weapons and defenses and their ranges and
effects are primary areas of interest, as well as anything else we can expect from enemy
engagement.”
Some of the wizards don’t look like this info is sticking the landing, but Bones at least looks
sharp. “We need to know what your wand sticks can do, and what else you use besides,” Ed
translates for the slow class.
“You don’t use wands at all?” one of the unfamiliar wizards says.
“We do not,” Hawkeye answers. “Are we correct in our current understanding that they are
multi-purpose tools, and that in most cases every wizard is in possession of at least one?”
“That’s correct,” Bones says while the wizard who’d asked looks kind of like she thinks
they’re the slow class. “A witch or wizard with a wand is armed. Other enchanted objects are
occasionally used in combat, to distract and confuse and such, but not very often. Wands are
fastest and most versatile.”
“What are some techniques we can expect from a typical wand user?” Hawkeye says.
Bones exchanges glances with Pirate, then looks back at Hawkeye. “Well, the spells depend
on the situation,” she says.
“Okay, say I’m real mad and comin’ at you with a big stick,” Ed says and mimes swinging a
bat. “What do you do? What’s the go-to?”
“Allow me,” Lemons says from the side, and before Ed can fully turn he says “Petrificus
Totalus!”
Ed’s entire body snaps rigid and drops him to the ground. He’s stiff as a board, arms at his
sides, can’t even fall properly, but ow he can sure as shit feel it when he hits the dirt ow ow,
fuck he can’t move.
“Relax, he’s fine,” Pirate says harshly in the moment of ringing silence that Ed distantly
recognizes as the immediate aftermath of Hawkeye going scary. “It’s just a full body bind.”
“And what is that,” Hawkeye says somewhere above Ed, very controlled. He can’t even
blink. He tries to wiggle his fingers, his toes - his automail foot responds. His leg works. Not
fucking much he can do in this position besides maybe aggressively scoot himself around but
thank fuck, he is buying Winry so much jewelry.
“First year hex,” Pirate grunts. “Only not fatal because it doesn’t affect the diaphragm and
heart muscles.”
Hawkeye appears overhead, leaning over Ed with her eyebrows tensed in concern. Boots
crunch over on Ed’s other side and Mustang appears too. “Well that’s certainly useful,” he
says, sounding thoughtful. Ed tries to melt the bastard’s brain out through his nose via his
glare. “Does it wear off, or does it have to be reversed?”
“Generally wears off in an hour,” Pirate says. “Finite Incantatem.”
Everything unlocks all at once, and Ed heaves in a huge gasp on reflex before gritting his
teeth and flipping himself to his feet in a kip-up. Mustang gives him a report look completely
at odds with his lazy tone. “Doesn’t affect automail,” Ed growls. “And no, we are not testing
that directly, because my mechanic is all the way the fuck across Xing.”
“The… Finite Incantatem,” Hawkeye pronounces carefully at the wizards. “That ends it?”
“Cancels most spells,” Pirate grunts. “Got to put some force into it if the countercaster is
strong, or the spell is ground in, but it’ll do for anything that’s not anchored or backed with a
ritual.”
Ed can’t even begin to figure how that could make sense - does the cancellation energy act as
a disruptive pulse on the existing active magical energy? - but Mustang’s looking at him.
“You may want to test on an analogous system, if you can put together something with
similar wiring,” he says to Ed, not under his breath but not addressing it to everybody, eyes
narrowed a bit. “Knowing what kind of defense you may need would pay off, especially with
your mechanic unavailable in case of emergency.”
Ed grimaces, lip curling back over teeth. His leg is wired to partially lock in cases of total
system failure, so that he’s at least able to limp along and not just have it dangling loose if it
gets royally fucked, but it slows him down a lot and Win yells at him real loud whenever he
walks on busted automail for even half a second longer than is absolutely physically
necessary. Can he even rig up something close enough in scale? In the past couple of years
automail wiring’s gone practically nano and what he’s got right now is a lot of tiny fuckin’
mesh nets in the port and then a cascade series linked through the rest of the limb, and while
he can probably set something up that follows the same principles he’s definitely not going to
be able to mimic the bio interfacing -
“Um,” Arget says behind them. “You can. Try it on me?” She blushes spectacularly when
everyone looks at her, but holds up her gloved right hand and flexes it once in the familiar
robotic glide of good automail. “Car accident when I was sixteen,” she mumbles, staring at
the ground.
“What, no, you can’t tell people that,” Ed tells her, momentarily forgetting about his leg and
whatever the hell Lemons’ deal is. “You gotta say you fought off a cougar or punched a bear
in the mouth or some shit. Car accident? Nobody’s gonna believe that.”
“You tell people you lost yours fistfighting god,” Havoc points out as Arget goes brilliantly
red, though she does smile a bit.
“That’s because I did,” Ed says, turning back to the wizards. “Yo, Lemons, what the fuck was
that?”
Lemons presents him with an eloquently disgusted sneer. “Lemons?”
“You want a better name, make better faces,” Ed tells him, cracking his knuckles. “You
wanna go one on one, is that it?”
“What is auto mail?” Lemons shoots back.
“That,” Ed says, unimpressed, jerking a thumb back at Arget’s hand. “She just told you.”
“And what is that?” Lemons says in superior tones of the deeply grating variety.
Apparently this guy needs the paint-by-numbers explanation. “Automail is a type of
prosthesis,” Hawkeye says before Ed can ask if this fuck knows what a fuckin’ prosthetic is.
“It’s the most integrated option available and generally chosen for its mobility and
durability.”
Most of the wizards are still looking pretty confused. Ed’s not sure why this is such a fuckin’
discovery for them, because while automail is mostly an Amestrisan thing that’s only just
starting to catch on in Xing, he’s pretty sure Hairy or whoever said something about lord
vasculitis making a new hand for one of his death idiots. “It’s what people use if they want to
upgrade from that,” he says, pointing at Pirate’s peg. “Yo, why didn’t you buy a leg offa
whoever made the eye, anyway? If they can do optical neuro work they’ve gotta be able to do
limbs.”
“The eye is one of a kind, boy,” Pirate grumps. “And not all of us want a leg out of metal.”
“Uh, the leg’s one of a kind too, buddy,” Ed says, incredulous. “Every prosthesis is, unless
you’re using a temporary. Who the hell mass produces prosthetics? You got lotsa people
losing limbs in the exact same way at the exact same joint?”
Every single wizard, however, is now zoned in to Ed’s general knee area and staring in a way
that indicates they’re not paying attention. “Your leg’s metal?” Ponytail says interestedly.
Ed narrows his eyes. “Sure is. Y’all can cool it with the staring, I’m not taking my pants off
no matter how sweet you ask.”
Bones snorts. She stared only for the first second, but Ponytail and the others keep it up and
Baldy especially does not take the hint. “Which leg?”
Ed cocks his head and smiles as sweet as he knows how. “Guess.”
“Sorry, sorry,” Baldy says, finally seeming to realize he’s fuckin’ pushing it. “It’s just
fascinating - oh my.”
They’re all looking past him again; Ed turns back and sees Arget’s pulled off her glove and
held up her hand. It’s an interesting mount - she’s still got her original thumb, and it looks
like whatever happened sheared across her hand diagonally, so the port is integrated across
her palm. Ed can see that the metal’s curved and segmented into three joints at the palm
instead of the standard single knuckle so as to move more naturally with the flesh that’s left -
it’s clearly a dexterity-focused model. “That’s good work,” Ed says, mildly impressed. After
two years as Winry’s live-in Pass Me Those Pliers - No, Those Other Pliers Idiot he kind of
can’t not be. “Who’s your mechanic?”
Arget looks like she kind of regrets taking her glove off, but she turns her hand to show the
little maker’s mark on the edge of her palm. “Altay sisters?”
“Oh, yeah, I heard of them.” Mostly in the context of Win hissing diatribes along the lines of
those bitches, how are they getting that kind of signal load without having the client up to
their ears in dampeners, I can’t believe this, I have to go all the way to West now and find out
how they did it, those assholes, are they single? “They make good stuff.”
“Is that entirely mechanical?” Baldy says curiously, wide-eyed. “How is it attached? Did you
charm it to - ah, my mistake, you use alchemy for this sort of thing, don’t you?”
“It’s not alchemy, it’s biomechanical engineering,” Ed says, back to annoyed. Then it occurs
to him that he’s no longer alone in this particular test pool and twists back to Arget. “Shit,
hey, is yours shielded? Like all your relays and stuff, do you have attenuation?”
“Yes sir,” Arget says, looking a little surprised. “Because I work with. Um. Special
equipment? At - work?”
“Ah, don’t sir me, that’s for the brassholes,” Ed says, waving it off. “You should be fine then,
long as you’re not sticking bits of yourself in any power sockets. Look - come and get a
direct hit if you want to, but if they fuck you, you’re fucked, you know? I can run some wires
together tomorrow and they can zap at that instead, see how it behaves that way. No need to
lose a hand. Again.”
“There are wires inside?” Baldy says excitedly. “And - you said the Petrificus doesn’t affect
it?”
“If it affects the muscles, not the nerves, then the signals from the brain are uninterrupted,”
Hawkeye says.
They do not look like they consider that an explanation. Ed refrains from rolling his eyes.
“It’s not enough of an immunity to matter, so it’s irrelevant. It hit me, I went down. You
wanna know about automail, you can write to an Amestrisan hospital and ask them to mail
you a brochure.”
“Forgive us,” Beardy says. “We are not familiar with most engineering products, seeing as
magic tends to interfere with most circuits.”
Wow, engineering, big word from Beardy over here. Ed bites back a smart remark and
reminds himself that this guy’s just like any other automail nut crawling around Rush Valley
and that while being a wizard does count against him he’s not any more of a freak just
because he’s foreign.
“Arthur is a great enthusiast of craft, and appreciates fine work when he sees it,” Beardy
continues, like he’s boarded Ed’s train of thought. “He means no offense.”
Well that - and Pirate talking about his leg - reminds Ed of pretty much the first question he
had about wizards. “Whatever. Can you read minds or not?”
Chapter End Notes
snape: welcome to the asshole big leagues, asshole
Chapter 47
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
None of the wizards answer immediately. Bones is looking at Beardy. “Oh, fuck me,” Ed
swears. “You actually can?”
“There is a method, yes,” Beardy admits, sounding grave. “Not commonly used, however. It
is a considerably difficult spell to master, and navigating the mind of another is no easy task.
It is not mind reading as you would picture it, I think - most cannot delve any deeper than
passing surface thoughts, and understanding often requires a great deal of interpretation.”
“Voldie’s a Legilimens,” Pirate says, almost idly. “Best in the world. Not that he bothers,
most of the time. But when he does - don’t think anything’s safe. Not even the best
shielding’s a guarantee.”
“Shielding,” Hawkeye repeats evenly.
“Legilimensy’s counter is Ocklumensy,” Bones says. “You can train your mind to shield
itself, though as Alastor said, against a very strong Legilimens it might not be enough.”
“And how the fuck does that work,” Ed says. “The shielding, the spell - how’s it affect you?
What’s the range? Do you need line of sight or can some fucker get you from the next room
over?”
“Eye contact is necessary in most cases,” Bones says. “I’ve never seen Legilimensy
performed any further than from a few steps away. It’s not a spell used in combat. You’d be
in the target’s mind together - nobody tries to incapacitate themselves like that unless they’ve
got backup they’re damned sure of.”
“Voldie doesn’t need to cast to get you, or even meet your eyes,” Pirate says. “He can use it
in combat. Your best chance there is keep him too busy to try and read anything from you.
Though at that point yer just trying not to die.”
“And the shielding?” Hawkeye says, neutral in the face of this relentless little ray of onelegged sunshine.
“An Ocklumens protects themselves by emptying their mind, or putting up barriers,” Bones
says. “It gives the Legilimens no way to push deeper.”
“And this can be learned?” Mustang says, arms folded a few paces behind Hawkeye.
“Yes,” Bones says. “Every Auror gets training, though most never master it. Some are
naturally more resistant to Legilimensy, though. I’ve seen a few cases where recruits got the
certification because the Legilimens couldn’t get anything coherent from them. They weren’t
putting up an Ocklumensy shield, but they weren’t revealing information either, which is
what counts when you’re out in the field.”
“‘Emptying your mind?’” Ed quotes skeptically. He last heard that from Mei and Al trying to
teach him to sense qi, and that was specifically to open him up to external stimuli, not close
him off. “You’re telling me the shielding specifically for this is just, like, meditation? No
magic counter involved at all?”
“I don’t believe it’s quite like meditation,” Bones says, dry. “Though I hear it helps.”
“Disciplining the mind is the only way to ensure its unassailability,” Lemons says, back to his
soft ooo-I’m-so-scary drawl. “Wand-waving or… clapping… cannot help you here.”
O-kay. Ed glances back at Al. He can tell they’re both thinking of the, okay, probably too
frequent occurrences of Ed going so far up his own mental ass that he forgets to hydrate,
doesn’t sleep for three days and walks into traffic, and that generally while reading getting his
attention involves hitting him with a stick. That’s not an empty mind, but it’s a pretty
thoroughly bricked up one. It follows that any mind-reading fuckdamn wizard is gonna have
to have a brakes-shrieking horn-honking thousand-kilo impending car crash or mental
equivalent bearing down on Ed to make a dent when he’s like that, and it’s pretty empirically
proven that the state is inducible.
Al shrugs a little bit with his hands. Ed chews consideringly at one side of his mouth and
turns back to the wizards. “Let’s test it.”
Hawkeye and Mustang both give him some pretty similar are you FUCKING serious
Fullmetal looks. Ed shrugs tightly. “They might not be able to get anything. And if it does go
through, all they’ll get is math.”
Mustang and Hawkeye keep looking at him. Then they look at each other. Then they look at
Al, which is just insulting, though at least Al just looks back at them like well, might as well
find out how bad it gets.
“You want to try to repel it?” Bones says, not like she’s skeptical but like she’s making sure
he really wants to stick his hand in this particular fire.
“Yeah, sure,” Ed says, rolling his shoulders. “Might as well find out what it’s like. Who
wants a go, c’mon.”
Most of the wizards look at Bones, but she just looks back at Beardy, unimpressed. “I’m not
a Legilimens,” she says archly.
Pirate’s looking at Beardy too, but Beardy nods at Lemons. “Would you care to indulge us,
sever us?”
Lemons doesn’t reply but he does step forward, face fully lemoned out, and points his stick at
Ed. Ed dives for his mental folder labeled Atomic Fuckery and spins out the fission problem
again fast as he can, deliberately digging up the core array that started it all and running
through the design base-up from first principles - the issue there is that if it’s possible
alchemically, the math allows that it should be possible physically, and him and the Central U
girl have been going at the problem from both ends with the dual tire irons of alchemy and
nuclear physics because if they can translate it to a non-alchemical industrial process
Amestris will be able to chuck coal burning and all its associated problems right out the
window. Part of the problem is that Ed can’t fucking explain half the shit he just knows, so
they’re both elbow deep in the math and the valence shells and the fucking byproduct
containment question -
“Legilimens.”
Pain stabs behind Ed’s eyes. Abruptly he’s in howling white nothingness, staring up at the
looming megalith of the Gate -
- and simultaneously in the weedy backyard, watching Lemons jerk hard and stagger
backwards.
It only lasts a second. The split sensation snaps away, and Ed’s left with his heart hammering
and his whole body tensed. He’s had enough experience with this specific joyride to know
they didn’t actually hit the Gate, but he has no damn clue what the sweet fuck it was instead -
an afterimage, an echo? Can you somehow end up in Truth’s foyer without getting dragged
all the way inside?
Lemons is standing upright and not clutching any bit of himself or coughing up any blood,
which is further reassurance, and he’s wide-eyed and pointing his stick at Ed like he wishes it
was a grenade launcher. “What in Salazar’s snakes was that, boy?”
Ed starts laughing, about seven parts sick delight to three parts relief. “My warmest fuckin’
welcome,” he informs an increasingly pissed-looking Lemons, once he’s got his breath back.
Looks like hitting the Gate makes you immune to mind reading, because of course it does:
that would transfer the Gate’s knowledge, after all, and it doesn’t share. “Wouldn’t try that
again. Shit, you got off easy.”
“Brother?” Al says, in that cautious tone that most people don’t realize means he’s issuing a
final warning.
“Ya, nah, we’re good,” Ed reassures him, then jerks a hand at Mustang and has the presence
of mind not to look at Hawkeye at all. “Gate.”
“Ah,” Mustang says, also looking back to the wizards without glancing at Hawkeye or
Hughes or any of the others. “That... would do it.”
“That was no Ocklumens shield,” Lemons says coldly, but there’s a spark of interest in his
eye that Ed doesn’t like. “That wasn’t... natural. What did you do to yourself, boy?”
Ed can’t help the crazy laughter again. It really is kind of funny, now that it’s clear nobody’s
been maimed this time. He grins at Lemons and knows it’s ugly. “Truth doesn’t come without
a price.”
“The Amestrisan armed forces prefer their soldiers to keep some things to themselves, and
take certain precautions to ensure this remains so,” Mustang interjects smoothly, which is not
at all a lie and neatly implies everybody else has similar defenses so nobody fucking tries the
same shit on them. At least not before they figure out a way to block it. “Is… Ocklumensy…
the only way you deal with such an incursion?”
“Avoiding eye contact can help,” Bones says, watching Ed the way Mustache and the others
did when they were talking about him killing dementers, and which they’re also doing again
now, incidentally. “But generally if you’re no Ocklumens then it’s like Alastor said - your
best bet is to keep your opponent busy and not get close.”
“I must confess to some curiosity as to these precautions,” Beardy says. “To deflect a
Legilimensy probe without becoming an Ocklumens - if you have any insight as to how one
may achieve that, it may prove extremely useful for those without the months necessary to
develop Ocklumensy barriers.”
“Sure. Just think real, real hard about porn,” Ed says brightly.
Someone starts coughing behind him. Lemons’ lip curls angrily, eyes glittering. “That,” he
says with distaste, “was not porn.”
“Maybe it’s just porn you’ve never seen before,” Ed tells him seriously. “You don’t know
what I get off to.” The coughing intensifies. “Y’all okay back there?”
“Fine, just fine,” Hughes says, kind of strangled. “So you, ah… distracted yourself?”
Beardy twinkles a bit at Ed. “Focusing on some particularly absorbing subject matter does
sound like a promising avenue for protecting your mind.”
It’s cute that Beardy’s got a sense of humor about this, because Ed sure as shit doesn’t have a
sense of humor about him. “Sure, try that.”
What Ed’s got doesn’t transfer; that’s the whole point. Though would a more aggressive stab
at mind reading him send a wizard to the Gate? That would make it - human transmutation. A
trespass on the soul - alright, yeah. If that’s where your mind is - and sentience retained as a
soul in an empty suit of armor proves it is - then trying to invade it could invoke the Gate.
Would their mind control shit work the same way? What about the memory erasing magic?
That’s manipulating the soul too, arguably - though the fact that wizards aren’t losing limbs
every time one of them does it points to the theory that they don’t have to deal with the Gate
at all. Lemons definitely isn’t acting like someone who recognized what he saw in Ed’s head.
If he even saw the same thing.
Maybe it’s only because Ed’s blown open his connection to Truth wider than a six-lane
highway that Lemons encountered the Gate-echo at all. Everyone has a Gate - or at least they
start out with one - but unless you get real dumb with your life choices most people never
even know it exists. So presumably the wizards are no different, only their magic doesn’t
interact with the Gate the way alchemy does.
That follows that interacting magically with Ed makes them play by the rules Ed has to live
by, which, hah, but also makes him wonder if there’s an analogous system on their end - if he
interacts with magic alchemically, does that change the way the alchemy works? Nothing’s
happened so far in all his fucking around with the house and stuff, so if there is an effect it’s
unobservable, negligible or belated. Or nonexistent. There’s no rule that says it has to go both
ways. If there’s no Gate equivalent there might not be anything to transfer.
Would mind-reading work on Hawkeye? She doesn’t even have a Gate anymore at all -
“Does language affect it?” Al says from his bench. “If, say, you are trying to get information
from someone who doesn't speak the same language - does something like the translation
stones work within the mind as well?”
“Legilimensy isn’t like reading a book,” Pirate says curtly. “It’s immersive. You’re inside the
target’s mind. You see what he saw, felt what he feels. Language doesn’t come into it.”
“It seems we have plenty of things to explore further regarding this topic,” Mustang says,
stepping forward. “We would certainly like to discuss this in more detail - tomorrow, perhaps,
as we don’t want to keep anyone this evening longer than necessary. We would welcome any
resources you can share on Ocklumensy, as it seems the most effective tool in dealing with
these kinds of situations.”
“Of course. Sever us is a master Ocklumens, and has several definitive texts on the subject,”
Beardy says. “I’m sure he’ll be happy to discuss it with you going forward.”
Lemons looks like he’ll be happy to push them all off a bridge and even then only if it’s into
a nest of crocodiles, but he nods. Ed’s gonna have to have his own talk with Al and Mustang
too, tell them his theories without wizards listening in.
And Hawkeye. That’s… gonna be a conversation. Ed would happily never bring that up with
her ever again in his life and he gets the feeling it’s mutual, but she’s basically in a wholly
unique position and it turns out it’s suddenly real fuckin’ relevant in the here and now.
“You mentioned other methods to compel people to divulge information,” Hawkeye says to
Bones. “As well as force them to do other things.”
“The Imperius,” Bones says, face grim. “I would call it far more of a danger than
encountering any Legilimens, yes.”
“But resistance is possible,” Hawkeye says.
“Yes,” Bones admits. “It takes a strong will, and if the caster is powerful then it’s that much
harder to break through. Complex orders are easier to resist, but if one is taken unawares, and
the charm reapplied… it can be very nasty indeed.”
“Are there techniques to strengthen resistance to this as there are to the mind reading?”
Hawkeye says.
“Practice,” Pirate grunts. “Experience. Willpower. It can help, but it won’t save you against a
powerful enough wizard.”
“I see,” Hawkeye says. “We would like to test this effect as well.”
That makes Top Hat and Baldy and the others look pretty uncomfortable, exchanging
concerned looks, though Beardy and Bones and the dark new guy keep their poker faces on.
Lemons just keeps on looking like he’s constantly smelling dogshit, because despite any
protests he’s clearly invested time and effort into getting his face to stick that way and he’s
not about to give up now.
“That’s an unforgivable,” Pirate says, not hostile for once, just considering.
All the wizards swivel to look at Bones like they’re waiting for a verdict. “I worked with you
for thirty years, Alastor, I know what you’re capable of,” she says crossly. “We’re fighting
the bloody dark war again, you think I’m going to care? All the Auror recruits worth their salt
test it on each other on the sly anyway, don’t think I don’t know about that. If they want to try
it I’m hardly going to say no.”
The last is accompanied with a wave at Ed and Hawkeye and Mustang. Pirate turns a more
considering look on Hawkeye, this one just this side of unpleasantly measuring, so Ed steps
forward and beckons: if the same pseudo-Gate thing happens then at least they'll all find out
quick it's nonviable and nobody gets hurt. “Yeah, let’s do it. Hit me.”
Pirate levels the stick right between Ed’s eyes and says “Imperio.”
There’s no jet of light. It’s a sudden rush of… pinkness, and… floatiness, like bubble bath
and cotton candy and those first seconds of bliss when his automail nerve surgery was finally
over and Winry could jack him full of painkillers. It’s kind of a nice place to be, actually. Ed
doesn’t mind the hard stuff, reacts well to morphine, and he doesn’t get it often enough to
have to worry about dependency so it’s not even one of the things Al stresses over. He only
gets sky-highed like this when there’s nothing for him to do but stay down in some sickbed
and grow scar tissue.
He’s got stuff to do now, though. Punch him. Mustang’s standing right there, looking stupid
and annoying and so fucking punchable. So why not punch him. Punch him. Why not do it.
It’d feel amazing. Punch him. He’s got the heavy gloves on, though, it’d break like, every
second bone in his face. Punch him. He doesn’t want to break Mustang’s face. Punch him.
Hawkeye would break his face, and then probably his spine. Punch him! And why the fuck
does he want to deck Mustang anyway, he really has been weirdly nice lately -
“Oh, you son of a bitch,” Ed marvels, half admiring, half crazy fucking pissed. He’s dimly
aware that he’s slurring but his hands form into fists just fine, leather creaking. “The one time
I got an ironclad excuse for fuckin’ deckin’ the bastard, I can’even take it. That’s fuckin’
nasty. That’s inspired. I’m gonna hit you instead.”
The second Ed takes a step forward the pink fog lifts, and sound and weight and brain all
snap back into existence in a rush. It feels a little like he just fell off a trampoline, the ground
suddenly harder under his feet and gravity in full effect on every part of him; in front of him
Pirate’s lowering his stick, looking speculative.
“Huh,” Ed says aloud, then can’t help shaking himself all over like a dog to get the weird
aftershocky feeling off. That was nothing like the Gate. “That’s it?”
“Were you… trying to make him hit me?” Mustang says, sounding like he can’t believe the
words coming out of his mouth; Hawkeye’s giving Ed an appraising kind of look too.
“Imperius can make you turn on your allies, your friends,” Pirate grunts. “If he wants a taste
of what it’s like I weren’t about to do the disservice of going easy on him.”
Mustang’s now staring at Ed like he’s trying to figure out where the zipper is on his human
suit and how he can wrangle it open to confirm his newfound conviction that Ed’s been
replaced by an alien or possibly just a shaved wolverine. Pirate, though, gives Ed a
grudgingly approving nod. “Good show, lad. Not many can even think their way through
Imperius, let alone talk.”
Ed grins unpleasantly back at Pirate. “Aw, thanks. Shoulda tried getting me to punch
Hawkeye. Then I really woulda hit you.”
“That was the compulsion?” Mustang says, still staring at Ed. “To hit me specifically?”
“Uh, yeah?”
Mustang’s face isn’t blank enough to hide that he very clearly has no idea why Ed didn’t, and
it’s so funny Ed cracks up, incredulous. “Are you serious? Mustang! I spend every day not
punching you, and that’s despite you, the entire country, the universe and all the laws of
nature begging me to do it. I am the world champion of not punching you. Shit, are you
disappointed?” Ed grins at Mustang’s pissy face and beckons with his whole palm, folding it
into a fist. “Aw, don’t pout. You ever want a taste, you just come and get some.”
Mustang casts his eyes skyward like he’s praying for patience. “Proof that your inability to
follow orders extends to magical coercion aside,” he says in the tone that means he’s
fantasizing about garrotting Ed with his own ponytail, “I would like to hear that this is an
offensive with effective counters available to us that are not pornographic fantasy.”
Ed snickers. “Relax, this one’s not hard. Pretty sure I’ve had cravings for pickled radish that
were a stronger ‘compulsion’ than this.”
“Pickled radish,” Bones repeats in the kind of tone that’s usually the prelude in a lot of
incredulous civilian yelling.
Ed would ask what her deal is, but Hawkeye’s looking a question at him. “Ever been on a lot
of painkiller?” Ed tells her. “Like, tweety birds and talking purple badgers, feelin’ no pain
kinda high? It’s like that. And then it feels like you should be doing something, and it sounds
like a great idea. But it doesn’t make any sense - I mean, you wanna do it, but like I said,
you, y’know, want to go get pickles when you wannit. And once I figured out it wasn’t me
wanting it, I got torqued off, and, well.”
Ed smacks his fist into his palm demonstratively and is rewarded with Hawkeye going all
amused around the eyes. “It’s much harder to fight off if you’re caught off guard, or
otherwise unprepared,” Bones says with an edge of audible control in her voice, and they
look at her. “Many would not describe the Imperius as experiencing a craving.”
“Understandable. We must admit Lieutenant Colonel Elric has a personal advantage in
resisting coercion,” Hawkeye allows, considering. “I would like to test this as well, please.”
Chapter End Notes
moody: time to make a point that imperius ain't nothin to fuck with. Puncho Superioro
Officero, alakazam
ed: HA! HAHAHAHA! HAHAHAHA HAAAAAAAAAAAA AHAHAHAAAAAA
HAHAHA HEEHEEEEEEEEE HOOHOOHOOHOO HOOOOO HA HAAAAAAAA
Chapter 48
“Porn?” Sirius chokes, sounding like he’s trying not to eat his own tongue strangling laughter.
“Porn? He - just - the Imperius -”
“Shhh,” Fred and George say.
“Purple badgers?” Ginny whispers incredulously, ignoring them. “Tweety birds?”
“Merlin - he just - to Snivellus - and Dumbledore -”
“Pickled radishes?” Hermione demands.
“Metal leg?” Ron hisses.
“Figures,” Harry grumbles, rubbing his bruised shin where Elric had swiped him into Ginny.
“And then - he just - porn!”
“Shhhhh!”
Chapter 49
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“You want to try the Imperius?” Bones confirms. “Well… try again, I suppose, Alastor.”
“One moment, please,” Hawkeye says, then begins unclasping the holstered sidearms from
her belt. Ed steps forward to take them when she holds them out; she doesn’t make a move to
undo her jacket and remove her shoulder holsters, so when she hands over the one from the
small of her back he steps back out of grabbing distance and makes sure he’s not gonna drop
anything. She’s damn smart - if Pirate tries to go all attack your pals again to make his point
she’s not going to kill anybody if shit does go sideways. Her shoulder pistols aren’t quickdraw with her uniform jacket formally closed, and those holsters are secured besides - Ed or
even Havoc could tackle her before she gets one of those guns into her hand.
Hawkeye nods at the wizards. “Whenever you’re ready.”
Pirate eyeballs her all what the fuck was that, lady, but he does step forward again, points his
stick and says “Imperio.”
Ed gets to see what it must’ve looked like from the outside on his go-around, which is not
much. Hawkeye’s eyes go kind of glazed, and it’s really only that Ed’s got years of practice
reading her that he can see when her expression goes uncharacteristically vacant. Pirate’s got
his stick still pointed, his own face focused, both eyes pointed the same way, even, and Ed’s
internal background count hits twenty-two seconds when Hawkeye just says “No,” in a very
level tone.
Then she blinks rapidly, eyes clearing, and looks around. Ed bounces his eyebrows at her,
because Pirate’s looking pretty disgruntled. “Pickled radish?”
“Rum raisin ice cream,” she tells him.
“Rough,” Ed sympathizes, holding out a gun back to her from the top of the stack. “What’d
he try and get you to do?”
“Take out my hair clip,” Hawkeye says dryly.
“What!” Ed says, then in a fit of pique, turns his very best shock and offense on the wizards.
“Oh, that is not okay. Let her hair down? You some kinda fuckin’ pervert? In public - you’d
get arrested in Amestris, you fucking sex maniac. That’s indecent.”
Every wizard looks deeply, satisfyingly taken aback. Ed’s seeing a lot of baffled looks go to
Hawkeye’s hair, then his; he hopes to fuck nobody behind him cracks too early, because even
Bones is blinking at him. “But… you had your hair down?” she says confusedly.
“Yeah, well, I’m a slut,” Ed deadpans.
Hughes once again loses any grip on composure behind him. Al sighs loudly over the
hysterical choking. “Brother. Stop teasing. I want to go to bed at a reasonable hour.”
Ed cackles at the look of dawning fury on Lemons’ face. “I’m fucking with you,” he explains
for the wizards not there yet. “Seriously, though, what’s the fuckin point of getting her hair
down?”
“Imperius can get you through an easy order sometimes faster than a hard one,” Pirate
grumps; whatever respect he’d decided to throw Ed’s way over the not following magic
orders thing is gone and it’s back to the glaring. “You obey something small because what’s
the harm, and then they’ve got you deep and unresisting.”
“Ah-huh,” Ed says, skeptical. It’s cute that they’re trying, and, okay, he’s gotta allow for the
possibility of personality and background affecting their susceptibility, because if every
wizard could shake it off like they did they wouldn’t be treating it like such a problem. In that
case Pirate here just seriously struck out in his test pool, because dogs of the state or not Ed’s
a huge fucking bitch and Hawkeye only follows the orders that she psychically feeds into
Mustang’s mouth herself.
“Thank you for demonstrating the spell,” Hawkeye says, casually signing all clear at
Mustang as she buckles her holsters back on. “That was very helpful.”
“Anyone else want a go?” Ed asks back at the rest of the team. “S’kinda fun.”
“At a later time, I think,” Mustang says, the party pooper. Probably scared Hughes actually
would take the chance to deck him. “We’d like to explore this further along with the
Legilimensy, but I think this has served as example, for the moment.”
“Yes, we’d all definitely like to try it,” Hughes says cheerily. “Especially if practice and
exposure turn out to be necessary. Not all of us have Edward’s natural charm!”
Ed snorts. He doesn’t know about Arget or Jones, but the rest of this fuckin’ dance troupe
consists of Al, who’s polite but not obedient; Hughes, who’s undergone so much
counterinterrogation training that he now teaches the nasty specialty course; and of course
General “The Last Time I Followed Orders I Committed Genocide, So How About I Just
Overthrow The Government Real Quick” Mustang.
Havoc… Havoc might just have to duck.
“When you clap,” Beardy speaks up, apparently deciding the whole mind control thing is
tapped out for now. “I assume you invoke your alchemy?”
“Yeah, sure,” Ed says disinterestedly. This is familiar territory: deflecting the but where’s
your circle? questions without getting into the whole ‘consolation prize from human
transmutation’ thing, because some fresh young idiot might just try it.
“How does that work, exactly?” Bones says.
“Dunno. How does magic work?” Ed says sarcastically.
“The wand acts as a focus and control for one’s magic, channeling the energy and
concentrating it to cast spells,” Bones says dryly, like Ed’s trying to climb out a window and
she’s pointing out that right next to him there’s a perfectly good door. “I assume it’s a
different system for you.”
“If the concept of the philosopher’s stone is the same across our cultures, I wonder what other
similarities our two alchemies may have,” Beardy muses. “You mentioned transmutation
arrays, I believe… they are the practical execution of wizard ing alchemy, and I assume a
facet of yours as well?”
“Sure,” Ed says sourly, reminded that their most important problem in this fuck festival is
that lord ventriloquy most likely has at least one fuckin’ alchemist as well as at least one
philosopher’s stone, and that isn’t gonna be affected by a magic negating array. “Arrays, yep,
all over the place.”
“Your alchemy does use circles, then?” Beardy says, all oh-that’s-so- fascinating -MisterState-Alchemist-sir. “I must confess, the application of transmutation without them seems an
undreamt-of technological leap.”
Ed shrugs, bored down to his toenails. “You get good enough, you don’t need circles
anymore.”
“Really?” Beardy says, projecting harmless grandpa as hard as Ed’s broadcasting boredom
and blatantly not taking the hint. “How so?”
“I am the circle,” Ed says half-sarcastically, because it’s both true and the non-answer
Teacher always uses whenever anyone asks how the fuck she’s transmuting circle-free. This
is one of the core things that drive Ed nuts about Gate shit; it’s literally impossible for him to
explain how he just understands how to align an array inside himself and channel the energy
through it. It’s like trying to describe color to the blind. ‘The array is me’ is the closest he and
Al can get to accurately describing what’s happening. “You can channel the energy through
yourself. Like you’re your own… wand, whatever.”
“And the clapping?” Beardy says.
“Completes a circuit.” Time to turn this convo around. “Gimme some of your alchemy books
or whatever later, I wanna see what you people use. They got arrays in them and shit, yeah?
Great, don’t need to read your Inglish to read that.” Though a dictionary wouldn’t go amiss,
and a periodic table either, because who knows if their symbols for elements are different.
Shit, are their names for elements different? Half the Amestrisan table is named after Old
Xerxesian shit, people and places and, like, fuckin’ hydrogen is bastardized Old Xerxesian
for water. What the fuck did Smartypants and the others hear when he said helium?
“In terms of the enemy’s capabilities,” Hawkeye says, returning Ed from the land of
nonuniversal nomenclature. “What would you say is the most urgent priority?”
“Information,” Bones says bitterly. “We don’t know where they are. They meet at different
locations each time. We don’t know their plans; Voldemort’s keeping his own counsel. We
can tail those we suspect, but we cannot enter their homes or follow them when they travel by
apparition or port key. We assume he’s gathering his resources, but for what -” She shakes her
head angrily. “We can only guess. Release his imprisoned death eaters, maybe. Contact
werewolf clans and vampires and giant tribes to build his numbers, maybe. Attack potter,
maybe - likelier now, given the dementers.”
“Has he released any declarations or manifestos? Any recruitment efforts, any attempts to
consolidate power in foreign states?” Hawkeye says. She’s fuckin’ unfazable; Ed’s still trying
to process vampires.
“No,” Bones says. “We know what he wants - that’s the easy part. What he wants is to kill us
and muggle born and take over the ministry. But as to how or when… we only just now have
anything substantial to work with, with the dementer attack. We have been trying to contact
the werewolves and vampires first, but the clans are transient, and vampires are solitary and
not big on, hah, socialization.” Her mouth twists wryly. “We can only hope they’re having as
hard a time getting ahold of them as we are. There haven’t been any increased reports of
those kinds of attacks near any wizard ing settlements, at least.”
Unknown numbers, unknown allies, unknown… everything. What a big ol’ dossier labeled
Jack Shit. This is no surprise given civilians aren’t trained to gather information and vigilante
groups don’t tend to have dedicated intelligence departments, but Ed’s still annoyed. Though
that may be mostly because of the vampires. If they tell him lord valedictorian is assembling
a magic mermaid army Ed’s gonna go full yodelay hee hoo.
“Out of the known tools in the enemy’s arsenal, is there any that is especially urgent as a
threat?” Hawkeye says. “Any specific advantage they have in weapons or -” the pause is
barely perceptible, Hawkeye’s a professional - “magic?”
“Yeah, like, you said lord vacuole can get you with the mind reading without using a stick or
saying the command, and that other people can’t do that,” Ed says. “He got anything else like
that? A bigger stick, maybe?”
“Voldie casts quick,” Pirate says. “He knows dark spells no one’s ever heard of - he invents
the things. He’s strong, he’s fast, he’s smart. He sets traps and takes hostages and gets allies,
friends, families to turn on each other. He doesn’t skirmish himself unless forced into it but
when he does only dumbell door can hold him off alone - and that’s just holding him off.”
“Does he have a range advantage, when using spells?” Hawkeye asks. “Can he get you from
further away than you can get him?”
“No,” Pirate says consideringly. “No, it’s his curses. If he gets you, you’re dead. The killing
curse speaks for itself; he throws that one out like confetti. But the rest… for what he uses,
there’s no countercurse. No shields, sometimes. I’ve seen spells of his go right through
Protego like it weren’t there. Healers can’t help you: the spells he uses aren’t anything
they’ve got an antidote for. If you’re hit, you die.”
So… like a gun, basically. Large-caliber, okay, fine. There are lots of ways to deal with
people with guns. Honestly, Ed’s more concerned about whatever the hell the gravity-null shit
Smartypants used on him was.
“You mentioned he can fly,” Hawkeye says. “Please explain.”
“Nobody knows how he does it,” Pirate says sourly.
“Why the fuck would you want to fly when you can teleport,” Ed demands. “Can he not
teleport? Apparate,” he tacks on, at the confused looks on some wizard faces.
“Oh, Voldie can apparate alright,” Pirate says darkly. “But you can only apparate somewhere
you’ve been, lest ye Splinch, and in a fight he’ll be on top of ye before ye can blink. You’re
stuck fighting on the ground; he isn’t.”
“What other specific advantages does he have over your own forces?” Hawkeye says. “Is it a
question of numbers?”
“Aye, he has that,” Pirate says. “Death eaters wear cloaks and masks - makes counting their
numbers difficult, can’t be sure if the three you see today are the same three you’ll see
tomorrow. Fourteen of his most fanatical are still in Azkaban, Merlin mote.”
“Wizard ing prison,” Bones translates. “We do not have a firm estimate of his current
numbers - perhaps thirty. At the height of his power he had over sixty at his command.”
Ed and Hawkeye exchange a look. O-kay then. And presumably this group here plus or
minus a couple others are the entirety of the vigilante squad; about half that of the death
munchers, then, if the numbers are accurate. Ed’s kind of glad that so far all the scary wizard
shit is turning out to be pretty underwhelming, but also, yikes, guys. It’s getting kinda sad.
“You and Elric are alchemists,” Bones says, looking between Ed and Hawkeye to Mustang.
He inclines his head in acknowledgement. “And the rest of your team are muggles?”
“I suppose that’s broadly correct,” Mustang allows, leaving off the according to your creepy
cult terminology, anyway.
“Will that be enough?” Bones says bluntly. “The death eaters are all wizards. All of them are
fighters, some very accomplished duelists indeed. They are unafraid to use dark spells and
they won’t just try to kill you. They’ll make it hurt.”
Ed tries not to look too exasperated, because it is not the time to say things like if we catch
them unawares it’s a fuckin’ thirty-second workday for Mustang or lady, we had ONE
alchemist decimate a town in two days, the body count was triple digits, fuck Void, damn him,
six hundred and forty-two dead two hundred twenty injured sixteen missing. Hawkeye,
though, is apparently tuned to the same radio, because she tilts her head up and examines the
darkened sky as if considering the night’s weather. “The usual distribution is one alchemist
per platoon,” she remarks, apparently to no one. “Two if you are on campaign. One
construction, one assault. Three is generally considered overkill unless your orders are to raze
the field.”
“Or host a catfight,” Hughes says, pushing his glasses up slightly. “You know what they say.
One alchemist’s a crowd, two’s an opera, three’s a coup in progress.”
“Ha, I fuckin’ wish,” Ed mutters under his breath. Mustang doesn’t wanna roll their stupid
government, well too fuckin’ bad, they’re gonna do something about the slavery before they
go or Ed’s gonna make his life a living hell until he capitulates.
“We will manage,” Mustang answers Bones, smiling his Officer Asshole smile; it somehow
manages to be more assholey than his Colonel Bastard and General Sadism smiles put
together. “And this is a joint operation, of course. We will be relying on you for more than
just information.”
“The death eaters won’t stand across a garden from you and wait for you to take turns eating
spells,” Pirate says warningly. “They’ve taken on Auror teams and killed many a witch or
wizard who’ve survived plenty else before. If they can order dementers to come after potter
they can order them to come after you, and if they swarm you need a patron us just to stay
conscious. Don’t get me wrong. If you can do to them what you did to those that came
before, I’ll buy your drink meself. But don’t make the mistake of underestimating what
Voldie can throw at you. Especially if you’ll be tripping into his lair.”
This guy needs to sit down with Mustang and his contingency plan fetish. “You know what,
let me cool you off on this one,” Ed says, because he’s had just about enough of standing
around talking. “You wanna know we can handle shit, no problem. Totally fair. Let’s spar. Me
on whoever. You guys can fight, right? Who’s good?”
That raises some eyebrows. “Spar,” Lemons says, like he’s pronouncing sheep rapist.
Pirate is focusing both eyes at him again. Ed cocks his head right back. “You fight still, old
man?”
Pirate’s expression doesn’t change much, but a gleam lights in his flesh eye. Bones is
grinning. “Alastor can be called… good, in a fight, yes. Of course, sever us Snape is also
quite experienced,” she says. “I’m sure either would agree to duel, if you so chose.”
“Nah. Let’s do both of them. Two on one.” Ed grins right back and shakes his hands out,
enjoying the heaviness of the leaded gloves. “Y’know. Gotta make it fair.”
Chapter End Notes
ed, whose sense of humor shows up at the worst of moments and manifests as things
only an intel officer would find funny: [tosses hair] oh haven’t you heard? I’m the slut
alchemist
al, ouija board in hand: i’m fucking telling mom on you
Chapter 50
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Bones looks at Beardy, though Lemons and Pirate both stay watching Ed like they can’t wait
to trash his ass like it’s dumpster day. Ed grins back his take your ticket and get in line, you
ain’t the first fucks to this party. “Why not,” Lemons bites out, murdering and dismembering
Ed with his eyes. “It would be quite ... educational.”
Pirate’s look is a little more evaluating, his roving eye making minute flicks up and down
Ed’s body. “Aye. I’m willing.”
Bones looks at Hawkeye, who doesn’t bother to emote, then at Mustang, who smiles back in
politely fake inquiry. “If you’re sure,” Bones says, looking back to Ed with her eyebrows
slightly raised like your funeral, kid.
“Yeah, let’s fuck this shit,” Ed says, lacing his fingers together as much as he can in the
heavy gloves and stretching both arms out inverse over his head. “Are we doing first blood or
tap out?”
Bones’ eyebrows stay up. “Blood?”
“Yeah, like, how do y’all spar,” Ed says, because he learned the hard way that Xingese
matches don’t recognize drawing blood as a valid way to end things. “What’s the rules? How
do you decide it’s over?”
“Disarmament,” Bones says, back to dry. “Typically a practice duel ends when one wizard
has lost their wand.”
“Okay, well, I don’t have one,” Ed says patiently. “So we can either go until somebody
bleeds, like I said, or until one of us taps out. That’s you hit the ground, one-two-three,” he
adds, because he’s getting a lot of blank looks here. “You can also call yield.”
“Hit the ground,” Bones repeats.
No rising dawn of comprehension blesses the other wizards’ features. Ed’s tempted to add
very sincerely that actually, Amestrisan sparring is conducted strictly naked and knee-deep in
canola oil, but he’s got the feeling that’ll choke Hughes out entirely and make Al do
something memorable. He looks over at Hawkeye instead. “Demo?” She nods. “Throw me?”
Hawkeye steps forward. Ed doesn’t brace for the incoming - well, not more than is automatic
- and lets Hawkeye get inside his guard, take his arm and lever it up over her shoulder. When
his boots leave the ground he’s got to fight the instinct to turn it into a full flip and land on his
feet; he doesn’t manage not to grab Hawkeye’s jacket with both hands in the starting position
of a counterthrow, but she’s merciful and takes him down at quarter speed and absolutely no
force behind it. Ed’s shoulder successfully hits the grass a second later and he unsticks one
hand to slap the ground three times.
“Like that,” he tells the wizards, taking the hand Hawkeye offers and pulling himself up.
“Means match over, stop whatever you’re doing. You got something like that? Besides losing
the stick?”
“One may call forfeit and end the match,” Bones says. “Are there other rules you duel by?”
“Well, we’re not trying to kill each other or nothing,” Ed allows. “Let’s say it’s done when
both of them lose their sticks.”
“Or you... tap out,” Bones says.
“Or I tap, sure,” Ed says indulgently, beckoning with a hand each to Pirate and Lemons.
“C’mon, everybody else back, let’s do this.”
“Mark the live fire zone, Fullmetal,” Mustang warns.
“Yeah, yeah,” Ed says, waving for the others to get out of the way. “Back it up, I said. Less
you want your shoes transmuted,” he adds, clapping and leaning down to pat the ground
briefly. That gets wizards retreating in a hurry; the top layer of soil and grass shunts off in
rumpled piles to the sides of the yard, because Al always complains when Ed crushes plants
‘wilfully’, so he avoids it when he can. It leaves a bare circle of even earth that stretches right
to the hedges and benches. Ed considers it, decides the space is enough, and, remembering
Smartypants’ ricochet into the cabinets, claps again and raises some thick dirt walls on the
Amestrisan side like the blast shields they have at the large-bore firing range back in East
Command.
Al stands from his bench and hops up onto one of the dirt blocks as it rises, riding it to the
top. “Yo, how do you handle ricochet?” Ed wonders aloud as the last of the dirt grinds into
place. Do they even have ricochet? Psycho had that force-field-lookin’ thing when Mustang
blowtorched the fuckin’ bog art, but an energy field like that would most likely absorb, not
reflect. “Like when your shooty shit gets thrown back at you. Or does it not bounce?”
Bones is starting to get that look local officials always get after extended exposure to Ed; it’s
an expression that starts with what the fuck , evolves to why me , takes a turn in why god and
then escalates into god’s dead and all that’s left of my psyche is whatever it’ll take to get rid
of this fucker. To her credit, Bones is climbing that curve slower than most. “Practice duels
are usually conducted with nonlethal spells,” she says. “If any go astray it’s a matter of
applying the counter hex.”
“So like… d’you need me to set up shielding, or,” Ed says skeptically. He does want to see
what the wizards might do to solve that problem, but also, if they don’t have anything, he’s
got a moral responsibility to build them some baby gates. Doesn’t mean he can’t be an
asshole about it, though.
“We will manage without, I think,” Beardy says serenely, justifying all of Ed’s asshole
tendencies anew with every sentence out of his mouth.
“We have shields of our own,” says the dark new guy with the big earring, deep voice all
reassuring. Aw, does he think Ed’s worried? “We will cast them if necessary.”
“Okay, sure,” Ed allows, not adding any your liability, then comments because they’ll both
find out soon enough if the wizards’ precautions are good enough. “Everybody get out of the
ring, then,” he adds, turning to flap a hand at Mustang and the others to shoo them up to join
Al.
Mustang gives him a deeply unimpressed look that says he is not happy about having to
climb up two meters of sheer dirt to get any kind of view. Ed smiles at his pain. No one
besides Al was smart enough to take the easy way up, though Jones looks at a block
consideringly, takes a couple steps back and runs up the wall enough to grab the top. From
there he extends a hand down to Arget, and then both of them pull up Hughes. Havoc sighs,
pulls himself up with his arms and leans back down for Mustang.
Ed cups his hands to give Hawkeye a step up and makes sure to watch pointedly and snicker
at the I-went-to-boot-camp-but-utterly-refuse-to-show-it look of entirely self-inflicted
martyrdom on Mustang’s face. Havoc hauls him up in much more justified martyrdom,
though Ed doesn’t believe the grunts for a second: Mustang weighs, like, maybe one of
Havoc’s legs.
Then it’s just him and the wizards. Ed takes his time walking back in their direction, rolling
his neck and shoulders, shaking out his arms. Pirate and Lemons move forward, taking up
positions about equilateral to each other - they’re not shoulder to shoulder but they’re not
spreading out, either, which is a poor starting choice if they’re planning to flank him. Ed had
been half of a mind to beat the shit out of whoever he’d be against without alchemy, just to
show off and make a point, but that’s seriously unlikely to be feasible given that fuckin’
Smartypants and Miss Redhead had dropped him like a sack of shallots just by catching him
off guard. The magic sticks are ranged weapons, like guns only the bullets can make you do
weird shit as well as, presumably, just kill you.
So like if Hawkeye was an alchemist, fucking hell what a scary thought. Plus sometimes the
bullets are invisible. And Pirate has that eye that saw through Ed’s pants the moment they
met, and might have some other magic bullshit going on besides. Plus teleportation. Great.
Ed suspects he’s about to have fun like he hasn’t had since Scar and his headsplosions put
him in his sights.
“We start on my command, then,” Bones says; she’s retreated with the rest of the wizards but
stayed at the forefront, all of them with sticks in hand. “We end on my command as well, if I
see it’s necessary. Understood?”
Ed nods along with Lemons and Pirate, shifting his weight to his back foot and opening his
stance. He’s going to have to be quick. Make cover, keep moving; treat this like a live
simulation because if they land with that paralysis shit it’s all fucking over. And they’re
motivated, too, both watching him with something that can only be eagerness even if it is
turning up on faces like bad citrus and old boot.
So. Use the terrain. Immobilize. Throw the book at them; give ‘em environmental, melee, all
kinds of problems. Do not, under any circumstances, let them so much as clip you. Get their
little sticks out of their hands and see what else they’ve got -
- but not too quick. The whole point of this is not to win, it’s to see what wizards can do.
Of course, Ed intends to win anyway.
“Begin,” Bones says. Ed moves.
Chapter End Notes
ed, who took out a train full of armed ex-military hijackers when he was fucking 12
years old: 2 opponents? well ok i’m due for a spa day i guess
Chapter 51
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Both wizards fire on him immediately , but they weren’t expecting him to dive high and
forward and their magic lights hit dirt under him as he tucks and rolls. He claps midair and
slaps the ground as he lands, punching an array outward that destabilizes the entire yard, and
it knocks Pirate and Lemons off their feet and simultaneously sends dirt spraying up into the
air around them, cutting their visibility. Time to find out what Pirate’s magic eye can see -
Plenty, it turns out, as Ed has to roll fast to narrowly avoid an unerring jet of light. More
lights come his way as he jumps up and runs for the perimeter, forming the next array and
rolling to clap and slap the ground again, the sting traveling up his arms. He pretty much
resigned himself to big guns right off the bat, but it’s still annoying as shit that these tapiocabrained cultists have managed to flunk their way into forcing him to actually put in some
effort.
When you’re up against some dickfuck with guns, they have the range advantage, point
blank. Well, fine. Ed likes to even the score by giving himself every other advantage instead.
His array mows through the entire yard and makes the ground uneven, treacherous, dips and
hummocks everywhere, pits opening and walls shooting up, spikes and pillars sprouting out
of everything; Ed grins at the chaos, plants his automail foot on one rising square of dirt and
rides it into the air.
His leap shows him Pirate and Lemons dodging heartily away from the pits collapsing open
around them - and both of them still fucking firing, motherfucker - so Ed mentally marks
their trajectories as he drops and falls behind the cover of a rising wall, twisting midair to
avoid more wide-flung lights. At least the dodging’s thrown off their aim.
He lands in a crouch and stays low, the maze grinding into place around him. The jets of light
don’t make any sound when they leave their sticks, which is a lack of cue Ed hadn’t
anticipated; he didn’t realize how much he’d been expecting gunshots and the implicit
announcement of the shooter’s location they provided. Also, no magazine and enough raw
energy to teleport means the wizards’ve probably got unlimited ammunition. No making
them waste their bullets and hitting them when they pause to reload. Do they reload? They
need to concentrate for at least some of their magic shit to be effective.
The yard is dark enough that Ed’ll see any light beams clearly, at least, and - he squints - the
haze of magic is visible on the strings of fairy lights up ahead. But if he can see fine, the
wizards can too, and Ed is not interested in sharing any advantages. He claps again, presses
his hands to the nearest wall and introduces some roofing.
There’s a thick phwoof sound and a burst of light from over where Pirate was. The array
keeps working, the corridors sealing over into tunnels, but fuck knows what that magic
hoohah did, so Ed leaves his crouch, runs along his own still-open passage and vaults up onto
the nearest wall.
When he and Al went to Dàdū the first time with Jerso and Zampano to make some
introductions and see what alkahestry could do for their chimerism, Lan Fan had taken a
personal interest in Ed’s presence. The resulting aggressively physical hazing lasted the entire
three months of their stay and most often took the form of beatings (“sparring”), ambushes
(“helping him develop qi sense”), and chasing him at breakneck speed across the entire city’s
rooftops (“showing him around”). Ed sure as shit didn’t pick up qi, but the whole run-a-fourcentimeter-rail-six-stories-up-at-top-speed had somewhat of a steeper learning curve.
Especially with Lan Fan right behind him. Always gaining. With knives.
Using the tops of his packed dirt walls, in comparison, is a cakewalk. The roofs themselves
are domed and fragile, pulled from the walls as they are, but the rest of his little playground is
load-bearing. Nobody immediately opens fire on him, so he trots along towards the center
and spares a cheeky wave for the wizards; their heads are just visible at the far end of the
maze and it looks like they’re moving around, trying to get a better view. As much as he’d
like to hop over there and maybe cartwheel in mockery he’s got to keep an eye on Pirate’s
general area, because if his fucking eyeball can see through walls, Ed’s an open fuckin’ target
up here.
When he glances back Amestriswards Al’s got nothing for him but Hawkeye is, in fact,
giving Ed a deeply judgmental look, so he grins kinda sheepish and speeds up, clapping and
skimming his hand over the ground to pull out a polearm. It’s essentially stone, compacted
down like that; he leaves the blade off the tip and feels it solidify in his hand just as
something blows up over by Lemons’ last known whereabouts.
It’s not a very big explosion: a chunk of roof over there is now a bunch of much smaller
chunks of roof over here. “Confringo,” comes Lemons’ voice, cold and annoyed, and part of
a wall blows out too.
Ed changes direction. It’d probably make more sense to take out Pirate first because of his
eye, but Ed’s got a bone to pick. He goes for Lemons.
The guy’s blasted apart a decent chunk of the corridor, advancing through the hole he’s made
in the direction Ed had been when they’d started. His explosions are knocking the dirt apart
pretty good, but nothing’s on fire and it seems to be a directed thing, issuing from his stick;
might be some kind of kinetic force situation, no fuel necessary. And Lemons hasn’t spotted
him yet.
Ed taps his knuckles together, a little awkward around his grip on the pole, and brushes the
ground to set the yard shaking again, collapsing the roofs around them to give Lemons
something to deal with and open up some space to really fight. Lemons stumbles and jerks,
losing his footing on the moving dirt, and Ed drops down behind him and charges.
Lemons whirls, but not in time. He shoots off a light, but Ed’s already bouncing up off the
wall on his left, polearm swinging. “Protego,” Lemons snaps, and the pole smacks down
against hard air.
There’s the motherfuckin’ forcefield. The blow judders up Ed’s arm, abrupt like he hit a wall,
and he grins into the vicious satisfaction on Lemons’ face. Ed attacked from above, so
Lemons blocked over his head, and the angle’s awkward but the leverage is solid so Ed uses
the unexpected redirect of momentum to swing his entire bodyweight onto the forcefield,
boots first.
It takes his weight, which is a shame given it means Ed doesn’t immediately crash feet first
into Lemons’ face, but the second of enraged bafflement down there is pretty satisfying.
Lemons snarls something and jerks his stick - looks like wizards can fire through their
shields, woooo fuck - but Ed’s crouched close enough to immediately take the jet of light on
his bracer. That rebounds it right back into the forcefield with enough punch to make
everything shudder, and oh, yeah, Ed loves that look on people. Did I just eat your bullshit
and hork it right back down your throat? You fucking bet .
Lemons doesn’t waste time, to his credit. He swings his stick wide over his head, and it turns
out the shield is a plane centered on his wand because it sends the forcefield tilting sharply,
turning perpendicular to the ground. Ed kicks off the surface, drops the polearm - smart
move, Lemons, if he just cancelled it Ed would’ve dropped directly onto his head - and claps
to hit the wall as he flips, because he can’t give Lemons any time to realize what Smartypants
did and start using area-effect magic like her fucking gravity nuller.
Lemons fires off two more lights as Ed lands, but one goes wide and he manages to take the
next on a bracer as his array snaps out through the dirt. It tilts the ground hard under Lemons
and collapses the two nearest walls inwards, which makes Lemons flail and let loose some
really heartfelt gibberish swears. Chunks of dirt bounce off the forcefield and Lemon’s
staggering but still on his feet so Ed claps again, jerking everything hard this time, and he has
to catch his own footing as the ground seesaws but he’s expecting it. Lemons isn’t. Ed scoops
up the polearm and runs at him again as he reels , the walls lurching around them, because
the closer Ed is the easier it is to block the magic lights and all he needs is one second of
broken concentration -
- and there it is. A spray of dirt spatters down Lemons’ head, hitting his hair, his skin. The
shield’s gone. Ed hurls the pole like a spear and closes in.
Lemons jerks hard to avoid the pole, eyes wide and one arm milling, off balance, and in the
next second Ed’s inside his guard and it’s over. Ed strikes his wrist, his chin, then backhands
him for good measure - all open-palmed because he doesn’t actually want to break bone - and
Lemons’ head snaps back, his stick goes flying, and his balance is fucked enough for Ed to
spin him, grab both arms and wrench them behind his back. Connecting his own hands for a
second completes the circle, a transmutation crackling between them, and when Ed shoves
Lemons forward his arms are bound together behind him, his sleeves melded into each other
and into the back of his dress.
Lemons staggers, snarling, but twists and tries to kick him, which is just plain adorable. “I
owe you forty-five seconds of full body paralysis,” Ed grins at him, sidestepping, “but I guess
this’ll do.”
“Little wretch,” Lemons hisses.
“Pet names already?” Ed scoops up the dropped wand, twirling it over the back of his hand
and tossing it up once to catch it, watching Lemons’ burning eyes follow it like a dog with a
piece of steak. “C’mon, what else you got?”
Lemons looks like he very much wants to charge over and kick Ed to death, but he doesn’t
actually try it. “Is that it?” Ed says mockingly. “Well okay then. Nice try. Oh, and hey, free
advice?” He sticks the wand in his ponytail like it’s a really ugly hair stick, enjoying the way
Lemons’ eyes widen in outrage. Ed grins. “Don’t fuckin’ call me little .”
He snags up his polearm and clips Lemons’ elbow with it as he goes past, knocking him on
his ass. “Bye bye now!” he calls as Lemons struggles to rise, snarling about snakes and
motherless dogfucking; Ed cackles, vaults back onto the nearest wall and takes off.
Chapter End Notes
snape: N-NANI?
Chapter 52
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Bloody hellfire,” Ron whispers.
“He put his wand -”
“- in his hair,” Fred and George say from either side of one Extendable Ear, wide-eyed and
giddy.
Sirius cannot bloody believe what’s happening. He feels like he’s accessed a higher state of
being. He feels transcendent. He feels nuts. That beautiful Elric bastard just rolled Snivellus
like a cheese wheel at the dairy fair, wham bam thank you man, and Sirius is pretty sure this
is love. Moony better like blonds, because Sirius isn’t sure he can keep from proposing.
“That was very quick,” Hermione says, equally wide in the eyes but sounding more alarmed
than appreciative. Beside her Ginny is looking slightly glazed and very thoughtful. “He just -
jumped right on…”
On her other side Harry looks like he was just told he’d be playing Seeker for the Falmouth
Falcons and that oh, by the way, the Holyhead Harpies are all trying to figure out who has
dibs on asking him to dinner first: awed and disbelieving but cautiously ready to fall headfirst
into delirious happiness. “Harry,” Sirius whispers very sincerely, nay, reverently, “I think this
might be the best day of my life.”
“Mine - mine too?” Harry whispers back, sounding shellshocked and staring blankly out the
window.
“I’m buying that little Elric bugger a drink,” Sirius continues. “Five drinks. Ten. As many as
he wants, Merlin, that was beautiful. Think we can throw him a party on short notice?”
“If Mad-Eye doesn’t send him to St. Mungos,” Fred or George whispers hungrily. “Bet you
twenty Galleons -”
“- Moody stuns him cold. Snape’s good -”
“- but he’s no Auror.”
Now that’s a wager. As good as Snivellus’s takedown was, Sirius definitely wants to see how
Elric’s blondie acrobat act fares against Mad-Eye - not just an Auror, but the Auror. Moody
took down four Death Eaters by himself once. Snape’s a duelist, but he doesn’t fight. And
Elric doesn’t seem to be able to fire spells at all.
Sirius grins, all teeth, and reaches over to shake Fred or George’s hand. “You’re on.”
Chapter End Notes
remus, blankly, down in the yard: not how i imagined I'd be relegated to being sirius's
second wife, tbh
Chapter 53
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed hasn’t heard anything from Pirate’s side since the fwoosh, which means he’s either tripped
and knocked himself out in the dark or Ed’s gonna be facing something elaborately nasty. He
detours to the Amestrisan side of things for a second, dropping down off the walls and then
popping up in front of Hawkeye to pull Lemons’ wand out of his hair and toss it at her feet.
Al’s not looking at him, staring out at the arena, eyes slightly unfocused in that way he gets
now when he’s focusing real hard on shit no one else can see, so Ed rips off Hawkeye a
grinning salute and falls back down into the maze corridors.
Now it’s just him and Pirate.
Barring whatever wizard escapist shit Lemons might try, of course. If he has any. Presumably
a magic ex-terrorist would have at least one contingency for getting corked by the cops,
though maybe this one dropped out to join the vigilantes because he couldn’t make the cut.
Ed looks around as he trots back towards the wizards and sees they’ve set up some kind of
platform of their own, wedged in between the outermost maze wall and the yard’s
surrounding fence. He hopes they have a great fuckin’ view of this dance-off, though he
doubts it given more than half the maze is still covered over. Lemons has disappeared into
one of the tunnel bits, or maybe just teleported away; in his place Ed would try and cut the
straightjacket to try for another go, but not everybody’s as frisky and fun-loving as him.
Either way, Lemons’ll have to teleport if he wants out. Ed didn’t make this fuckin’ maze to
be exitable.
He doesn’t see Pirate anywhere, and doesn’t hear him either. Given the guy looks like he’s
been chewed on by a dog or twenty in life, Ed’s gonna go ahead and assume he isn’t huddled
up waiting for someone to turn on the lights again down there. There’s been no indication so
far that his perv eyeball can see through the dirt walls, but that doesn’t mean shit if he’s smart
enough to hide it. Who the fuck knows what else he might have, anyway; that peg leg looks
like wood and well might be, but for all Ed knows the guy’s got a laser-shooting prosthetic
left nipple.
And now he’s been given time to plan. Alrighty then. Time to interrupt Pirate’s picnic. Ed
speeds up and heads for the center.
He almost, almost misses it. He sees the air shimmer at the exact last second and only just
barely changes trajectory, throwing himself sideways in a frantic twist, slamming the polearm
butt first into the dirt to swing around and keep from going head over ass entirely. He skids a
good yard or so regardless, just barely managing to keep both feet planted in line so as not to
slide off the top of the dirt wall, and while it’s not exactly a textbook landing it at least it
takes him further from the fuckin’ airhaze.
A magic field, hanging in the air, immobile. Ed can make out the edges of it: it’s a cloud
enveloping the entirety of the top of that chunk of dirt, right in Ed’s path. So Pirate knows
he’s up here and using the walls - point to X-ray eye - and he’s setting traps.
Face doing something that feels mildly evil, Ed taps his knuckles together around the pole
again and hits the top of his wall with one fist, setting everything shifting again, terrain
reforming into something entirely new. He makes sure there’s no even ground anywhere,
everything all sharp inclines, tilted floors boxed in by high walls; let Pirate and his peg leg
navigate that.
Then he turns to the trap. He left that bit of wall as is, more to mark its place than anything,
though figuring out how the fuck it’s anchored to hang in place like that would be nice. He
rifles one hand across the dirt at his feet, grabs a handful and chucks it into the haze. It hits
and hangs suspended, stuck midair; okay, some kinda magic glue trap, maybe.
Ed stays crouched, looking around the yard for more patches of haze and assuming that
wherever Pirate is he’s watching him right back. Can that eye of his see through whatever?
Ed’d try a flashbomb, only that’d blind everybody watching, too, and explosives can be
unpredictable even without magic hoohah in the mix.
There’s a faint, muffled noise, and half the corridor in front of Ed just - disappears, rubble
and walls scooped out in one invisible chunk, what the fuck. Ed springs backward, landing on
top of a different wall, polearm up as Pirate appears in the suddenly cleared space. While it’s
good to know he hasn’t slipped on a banana peel and fainted somewhere down there Ed can’t
say he’s glad to see him, because he brandishes his stick and snaps out some nonsense and a
bunch of walls disappear again.
The gulp-and-gone style reminds Ed way too much of how Gluttony had unhinged his whole
body into one gaping maw, sucking down swathes of forest, and he smacks his knuckles
together and hits the dirt again. It opens a pit right under Pirate - not deep, Ed doesn’t want to
break his neck - but the guy’s quick on that peg leg and only drops to one knee instead of
sprawling. “Protego Maximus,” he raps out as he falls, jabbing his stick upwards, and a
shimmering haze blooms all around him.
Another forcefield. Pirate shoves to his feet and proceeds to do absolutely fuckin’ squat. Ed
checks again real quick to make sure nothing’s about to fall on him or jump out or nothing -
when your enemy just stands there looking expectant that usually means they’ve set some
sneaky bullshit in motion and it’s about to crash on your head - but there’s nothing and Pirate
continues to just stand there, focused on Ed with his stick in lowered about halfway to waist
height.
“You know how to break shields, boy?” he calls, his X-ray eye doing a wild circle before
focusing on Ed again. “It’s possible, if ye didn’t know.”
“What is this, share and care time?” Ed backs up a bit just in case, making sure the corridors
around him are clear enough to drop into if he has to jump. “C’mon, hit me. Open fire.”
“You waited for Snape to drop his shield,” Pirate says, not moving. “That won’t work for
someone who’s got the brains to cast a Maximus. What can ye do from over there?”
Ed narrows his eyes. That forcefield goes all the way around Pirate in a dome, judging by the
haze, and it might sink down into the ground, even. That shit is so far the biggest tactical
advantage the wizards have so far besides teleporting; he should find a way to get rid of it.
He does want to get up close and see if he can get a compositional read on a stable energy
field with that kind of apparent density, but he’s not getting anywhere near Pirate until he can
reliably counter whatever that wall-eating shit was. There was no bolt of light for Ed’s
bracers to reflect on that.
Ed shifts his weight, watching Pirate just like Pirate’s watching him. How to deal with
forcefields. This one doesn’t look like it’s taking concentration to maintain, but then again, if
it didn't take brainpower to keep up then Pirate would be doing something besides standing
there watching Ed like a planted scarecrow. So, assume it’s like Lemons’ planar field had
been - dependent on him having some level of focus on its functionality. Ed could shake the
maze again and keep going until Pirate falls over and loses concentration, but so far being
knocked around hasn’t made the asshole drop his stick and in any case Ed’s ready to see
something new.
What are his options. Theoretically, any forcefield dense enough to repel physical objects
would be gas impermeable, but theoretically teleportation is impossible, so stamp a big ol’
magic fuck you on that one and assume Pirate’s not gonna run out of oxygen in there. That
does presume, however, that other gases can pass through the field.
Atmospheric transmutation is hard as shit, doubly so over any kind of distance, and pulling
that helium trick on Smartypants alone had nearly knocked him crosseyed; Ed’s best with dirt
and metals for a reason. He hasn’t got the time to streamline the gas arrays he knows to cut
the energy and focus requirements into something manageable and he definitely can’t do it
while dodging. (Mustang spends all his fights standing in one place for a reason, too.) Maybe
there’s a way to short it out? Ed also knows better than to set off energy arrays with a clap,
because that’s the same problem as gases only tripled and with extra electrocution sauce on
top. With twenty seconds he could scrawl out an EMP array, but he’d really rather not test his
leg’s attenuation quite so aggressively in a fight where, ugh, winning doesn’t actually matter.
“What you did to the dementers,” Pirate says conversationally. “Try that.”
“Uh, fuck no?” Ed says incredulously, startled. “It’s a spar, we’re not trying to hurt each
other.” Hellfuck, is this one-legged wonder shooting magic that’ll actually kill him if it
lands?
“You’d better have enough hurt to share with the death eaters, lad, because they’ll bloody
well be trying to hurt you,” Pirate says, not hostile so much as advisory. “Ye can kill when
you need to, you’ve shown that, but a smart wizard’s got more tricks than a dementer. Let’s
see if it can be countered.”
Ed has to clench his core to control the roil of disgust. Yeah, he’d killed those things. Two
beings that could take directions, understand simple orders. Even if they were no more
sentient than trained dogs, he’d still taken life. Even if it was self defense, they were still
dead. You’ve shown you can kill when you need to, lad. Like that’s a good thing.
Good job, mister alchemist.
A part of him says, in a voice that always sounds infuriatingly like Mustang, that if Pirate’s
trying to get him riled up, it’s working.
Ed flexes his grip on the polearm and gets it the fuck together. He can see why Pirate might
want a firsthand look at what killed their super scary war weapons, but the guy clearly
doesn’t understand he’s asking to be buried alive and then baked like bad lasagna. That’s not
even something Ed would use on terrorist wizards, ever - it doesn’t matter if they can counter
it, that’s just not what he’d do in a serious fight.
On the other hand - would a sufficiently destructive encounter overwhelm the forcefield, like
Mustang did to Envy to leach power from their philosopher's stone?
Well, in that case. “Wrong alchemist,” Ed says aloud, not caring if it makes sense to Pirate or
not. Wouldn’t he just teleport out if Ed tried to bury him, anyway? Come to think of it, Ed
hasn’t seen any teleporting from these two wizard fuckin’ warriors so far, and that’s a big
whatsie-fuckie considering those twins proved how easy it was for them to pop up all around
Ed, fast enough to get inside his guard. If Ed could teleport he’d never fuckin’ lose a fight
again.
Might as well stick his hand in the chimera’s mouth. “Why aren’t you teleporting?” he says
bluntly, bracing to move if that gives Pirate any ideas. Surely some fuck of a wizard has
thought of the applied uses of teleporting in combat. “You could be zapping around this
whole yard and I couldn’t catch you. If I buried you you could just get out. What the fuck’s
up?”
Pirate snorts. “No sane wizard will apparate in a fight, boy, no matter how useful it’d be.
Why do you think Voldie made himself fly?”
“Drama?” Ed says automatically, but - what, seriously? “You don’t teleport in combat at
all?”
“That’s a quick way to get yourself Splinched,” Pirate says in what’s probably meant to be a
mild tone.
“And what the fuck is that?” Ed demands.
“Leaves bits of you in one place and the rest in another. Any bloody fool that determined to
get himself hurt might as well eat a curse to begin with.” Pirate flicks his stick and a bolt of
light goes right for Ed, making him skid sideways along the wall to dodge. “Try your
thermite,” he repeats, firing again in a let-me-motivate-you kind of way.
Ed hisses through his teeth and drops from the wall, taking off down the corridor as
something blasts loudly where he’d been crouched a second ago. He’s not going to bury
Pirate no matter how fuckin’ annoying he gets, but testing whether Ed can transmute inside
the forcefield - yeah, okay, that he’s gonna find out.
Ed can’t actually do ranged stuff. He can throw all this dirt around, yeah, but it’s not true
transmutation at a distance the way alkahestry is, it’s just pushing his transmutation bigger
with a matching energy drain to compensate. His max radius, though, is plenty big enough to
encompass this whole yard. He claps and hits the ground.
There’s a weird blip when the transmutation hits the forcefield - like the house had felt, that
very first time - but then the energy washes through, and Ed has a second’s worth of smug
before he feels his array - splinter.
That’s not the right word, but there is no right word - the variables warp nonsensically, the
transmutation unravels, and he cuts the energy immediately but it’s too late. The ground
shakes, discharge snapping wildly over the dirt beyond the forcefield, and Ed can tell it’s
executing the intended effect but there’s no control and that makes it a fucking localized
earthquake.
That did not happen with any of the house transmutations. Ed jumps up onto the nearest wall
quick because unexpected transmutation rebound always means damage control; the array
was meant to sink and seal Pirate thigh-deep into the dirt but it definitely didn’t do that - but
Pirate’s fine, his forcefield’s active, and his eyes snap to Ed even as he catches his footing
amid the aftershocks.
Okay. Ed follows through on his vault and lands down in the next corridor over, smacking his
knuckles together. He slaps dirt and watches a single centimeter-square cube rise up. No
problems. The effect’s local.
The forcefield can disrupt alchemical energy. Bad. Whatever shielding is on the house didn’t,
so - does the kind of magic matter? Whatever Pirate’s using for this forcefield must be
different. Ed leaps back up onto another wall, knuckles meeting so he lands hand-first and
sends a new transmutation out and down. Walls rise around Pirate, right outside the border of
his forcefield, and Pirate immediately waves his stick and sends a bolt of light that blasts part
of the wall out the way Lemons had. He keeps blasting as Ed jumps from wall to wall,
automatically trying to get behind Pirate to give himself time to think; Pirate just turns in
place and keeps up his casual demolition until all the dirt around him is gone again, perv eye
tracking Ed steadily, inexorably.
He’s taking Ed seriously. He’s not going to get mad like Lemons did. Ed can’t match him on
range, can’t get close when that field’s up and he knows it.
Okay, fuck this, Ed’s Faradaying himself and then setting off an EMP. He’ll have to be real
fast, because this’ll take a drawn circle and he’ll have to activate it from up close. Though not
if he makes it bigger - size the array to the whole yard and activate it from the outer edge,
damn. Can he do that? He’d have to inscribe the array in dirt with a transmutation -
“I forfeit,” Pirate says, waving his stick. The forcefield blips out.
Ed skids to a halt in shock. “Wait, what?” he demands. “Oh, come on!”
Chapter End Notes
snape, off in some corner, kicking a wall: fuckin’ nasty ass hobbitses
Chapter 54
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Ye can fight. You’ve proven that much,” Pirate says. “And if ye won’t get serious, no point
drawing it out.”
Drawing it out? “ We barely did anything,” Ed says incredulously. “We ain’t been at this ten
minutes! What, is that all your terrorists might throw at us? Did your stick run out of spells?”
“Anything a death eater sends your way is something you don’t want to land. Doesn’t matter
much what curse it is, your job is to not get hit. You didn’t get hit,” Pirate says, in a brusque
tone that conveys he’s not exactly impressed but knows beggars can’t be choosers when it
comes to accepting recruits to the magic vigilante squad. “We don’t have time to waste
hopping around. Get down from there and show us how your thermite works.”
“Oh my god,” Ed says, starting to feel the crazy really coming on. “Thermite is not - okay.
Listen. Thermite is a chemical compound, and that means it is a physical substance. It looks
like dirt. It basically is dirt, kind of, and it is inert unless ignited and that itself is real fuckin’
hard to do. The temperatures involved are ve-ry, ve-ry hiiiiigh, do you understand? Big
temperatures. Heat. Hot. Ouch. And I am not going to use it, especially on people, because it
would melt them.”
Pirate considers this. “You can melt people with dirt?”
Ed twitches in what’s gotta be a pretty noticeable way as he physically strangles the urge to
hurl his polearm at Pirate’s face like a javelin. “Yes. Definitely. Yep. I melt things with dirt.
Absolutely. Dead fucking on.”
“Come get down and show me, then,” Pirate says, unperturbed.
“I concur with mad eye’s suggestion,” Bones calls from across the yard, before Ed can get the
full lungful he needs for a really good scream. “We’ve gotten an idea of each others’
approaches and at this point we’ll get more from a discussion. And we would all benefit from
learning a new method to deal with dementers.”
“Okay, well, unless you can make and ignite thermite, I can’t fuckin’ help you,” Ed says
sourly, not adding that he’s not teaching anyone in this dipshit terrarrium so much as the
exact chemical formula given they’re struggling to grasp what it even does while still being
way too excited about it. He hikes his lip at Pirate and spins his pole once. “You that sure you
wanna forfeit? You ain’t even landed one hit on me yet.”
“A death eater attack can come at any time, boy. The dementers going for potter proved that,”
Pirate says, grumpy but not grumpy enough given the fuckin’ circumstances. “Save your
energy for the real fights. This is a war. You’ll need it.” He jerks his chin in a here-boy
motion. “Come down. Let’s see if ye can break a shield wandless.”
Well now Ed wants nothing more than to transmute his polearm into a giant cartoon mallet
and whack Pirate over the head until he’s sunk knee-deep in the ground like the world’s
ugliest lawn flamingo, but he rides out the urge. He’s annoyed, jittery with dead-end
adrenaline, overwarm in that started-the-workout-but-didn’t-get-to-sweat-way; what a fuckin’
shortstop of a demo match. He looks back Amestriswards. Hawkeye opens her hand; his
discretion.
Ed looks back to Pirate, who gestures all whenever you’re ready, asshole. Ed can’t exactly go
and hit the guy after he’s forfeited, so he grinds his knuckles together, plants the polearm
vertically and sends it back into the dirt, the energy crackling down and across the entire
maze to grind it back into the ground. “How do you get rid of other people’s forcefields?” he
demands as he rides the wall down, folding his arms at Pirate as Hawkeye and the rest come
back over and the wizards fuck around with their own shit on the other side.
“You need a wand for that,” Pirate says. “And I doubt we’ve time to teach ye to use it. No,
let’s find out if we can do it your way.”
If Pirate wants to test his forcefield against what he thinks is a super-duper demon-killing
magic wish bomb, then a controlled collaborative experiment is way safer than just throwing
it around within a spar. Though Pirate had asked for that first, so maybe Ed should just be
grateful that safety measures occurred to him at all. “My way is not gonna be thermite,” Ed
warns. “I mean it. All of you need a fuckin’ intro to chem lab materials safety lecture, you’re
gonna get yourselves killed.”
“What would have been your approach?” Mustang asks as he traipses up with the rest of
them. “With thermite out of the question.”
Ed rolls his eyes skyward and blows his bangs huffily up out of his face. “Faraday me, EMP
him. Run the array around the forcefield’s circumference, the shield shorts out, boom.”
Mustang narrows his eyes slightly. “And your experience with electromagnetic arrays is
extensive, is it?”
“Uh, me and Kendra worked that fucking hydrodam sabotage thing together for two whole
months, bastard,” Ed says. “I know you know that because you assigned us. I picked up some
stuff.”
It’s not super common alchemy - Kendra got her state title for it, and she’s pretty much the
only one working with electromagnetics in practical alchemy because pure energy arrays are
complicated as shit. Ed would be able to set off a pulse - cheating, really, mimicking a
lightning strike via electricity-based array - but Kendra can do way more fine-tuned stuff as
well as dial it up all the way to ionization.
Which is probably why Mustang’s giving Ed the bitcheye. Generating electromagnetic
radiation strong enough to do area-effect damage is a war tool. Kendra wasn’t in Ishval, but
she’s in Mustang’s bloc because she served four years on the Aerugan front. More than one
General, she’d told Ed sardonically, used to loudly fantasize about their alchemist dream
teams: Electric Storm knocks out communications and downs power lines, Strong Arm
disrupts and blocks off the rails and water mains and roads, Flame comes in and burns what’s
left to the ground.
“Some stuff,” Mustang repeats, because he’s probably heard plenty of that kind of fantasizing
too.
“Yeah some stuff. Little kiddy sparky stuff, okay? Like blow out one radio levels, I know
better than to set off a large-scale EMP.”
Mustang gives Ed a narrow look that usually accompanies words like ‘requisition form
rewrites’ and ‘budget review’. “What’s EMP,” Pirate says, before Mustang can make some
comment about how Ed’s due for an in-depth skill self-assessment report, single-space typed
sixty page minimum.
Ed is not in the mood to run a preschool primer here. “It’s when some lightning and some
magnets get together and make a baby and the baby gets really, really mad,” he says. “Then it
claps its little baby hands and shakes its baby rattle and disrupts the ambient electrical field
via transient broadband pulse and subsequent damped sine wave response. Locally
speaking.”
“Oh, is that all?” Pirate says, just as sarcastically.
“Usually. Sometimes you get sparks,” Ed informs him.
“Your approach to combat is certainly unusual,” Beardy remarks as the rest of the wizards
pull up. He’s looking over Ed’s shoulder; Ed glances over and sees where the maze coming
down revealed Lemons, who has clearly decided that lurking and looking hateful is the best
way to present himself with dignity. Beardy waves his stick at him, and with a faint noise of
cloth splitting Lemons is able to shake his arms free, sleeves cut away from the rest of his
dress. “I believe you took possession of sever us’s wand?”
Hawkeye hands Ed the stick he’d liberated with a mild warning in her eyes, so Ed only curls
his lip a little when he goes over and bows sarcastically shopkeeper-style to Lemons,
presenting the wand in both hands. Lemons takes it slowly, with a measured look that says
he’s going to spend a while having sex fantasies about roasting Ed’s lungs on a spit.
Ed just winks, sweet as mean gets, and turns back to the others. “Okay. Reality check.
Thermite’s not a bomb but for you guys it might as well be, so no, we are not messing around
with ‘explosives’ in some random civilian backyard for no fuckin’ reason. I don’t know what
exactly about it killed your fuckin’ dementers, but I would say the fact that it burns at two
thousand two hundred degrees Kelvin is a good fuckin’ guess.”
“So it’s fire,” Bones says consideringly.
“It’s solid fuel combustion,” Ed says, trying not to be too exasperated at the one person so far
demonstrating the most of what wizards have passing for common sense. “Fire - technically,
yeah, sure, this is fire that’s really, really hot. When fire is that hot, asphalt melts. And it’s
real fuckin’ hard to stop, cuz once you light thermite the reaction keeps going ‘til the fuel’s
gone. It’ll keep burning even underwater.”
“That… could mean that fiend fire could be used to destroy dementers,” Mustache pipes up,
sounding carefully exploratory, glancing at Pirate and Beardy. “In theory. Though it would
have to be from a distance, as controlling fiend fire is already supposedly quite difficult even
without dementer interference. Perhaps if someone else cast the patronus while another
wields the curse?”
Pirate grunts. “We’ll try it next time dementers show up and we feel like burning down the
neighborhood. Now, what were you going to try with lightning and magnets, boy?”
Ed knows Pirate’s just finally wised up and started fucking with Ed right back, but the real
lack of basic scientific literacy is getting genuinely annoying. Should he even be
demonstrating stuff like EMP, when their opsec is so shit and they have an ex-terrorist right
here and in general trusting these fuckin’ turtledoves is a bad idea? Then again, if a pulse can
fritz their forcefields, then it doesn’t matter if they know what an EMP does, it’ll take them
out anyway. It’ll just make Ed more of a target, and he’s already public enemy number one
just on sheer personality. And the fact that Pirate’s forcefield can disrupt alchemical energy is
something they need to address.
It occurs to Ed that unless Al got something from qi, nobody else knows that happened,
because the actual effect probably just looked like more of his ground-shaking. He needs to
find out why the fuck his array disintegrated. It had felt like a corruption of the information,
not the energy itself - like a radio with signal interference, the sound coming through but the
information that tells it how to form words warped into nonsense noise. The best working
theory he’s got at the moment is that out of those two energy fields, the magic shield was a
higher-density concentrate, so to speak, and affected the alchemical energy more than the
alchemy affected it.
And Smartypants had told him that magic disrupts electrical equipment, so that plus his
magic-as-weird-fucky-light discovery is a pretty decent indicator that an EMP would interact
with the forcefield on the same playing field.
An array that would guaranteeably overwhelm the forcefield would probably not produce a
small EMP. The safest thing would be to determine the field’s specific energy output then
calibrate the EMP array to just a little bit over that, but all that might mean is ramping it up in
gradual increments to a real big whoppy if the first test doesn’t work. Plus this is also shit
they’re gonna have to test with the magic-cancelling array. If the circle is draining magical
energy, would a forcefield be able to interrupt it or would it just get eaten?
Ed’s been silent a couple beats too long, and Mustang’s looking at him expectantly with an
edge of don’t blow us all up because you had an Idea, Fullmetal . “That’s gonna take more
prep to do safely,” Ed admits grudgingly. “I’d want to Faraday more stuff than just me and
Arget and get numbers on their output of… whatever so I don’t blow out every power line on
the block by accident. If we’re gonna test automail analogs tomorrow anyway we might as
well do that then.”
“It’s that destructive?” Bones says, looking kinda judgmental about it.
Ed seesaws his hand. “Depends how much power you put into it. If your shit’s charged
enough to behave solid, though, then yeah, you don’t wanna set that off without some
attenuation. Plus there might be a damped sine rebound, like I said, and since it’s hitting a
battery basically to begin with I have no idea what the decay rate would be.” He reflects on
this. “Shit, might not come out damped at all. Might amplify it, actually. Hell, I’d like to see
that.”
A bunch of the other wizards are now eyeballing Ed with that are-you-a-werewolf look again.
Ed squints at their expressions. “Don’t gimme more of that oh no, we only use happy nice
thoughts shit again. I told y’all, this ain’t special. Chemists make thermite. Electromagnetic
energy is, like, everywhere. Applying it with alchemy just makes things faster.”
“Happy nice thoughts?” Al says delicately.
“Yeah, that’s how they deal with the dementers,” Ed says, rolling his eyes. “They shoot their
happy fun spell and it chases the scaries away. Apparently only super evil dark stuff gets rid
of them permanently.”
“Well, ye gave us reason to think, didn’t you, boy,” Pirate says. “To ward off a dark creature,
that’s one thing. To destroy it to the point where it leaves barely a smear is another bag of
Skrewts entirely.”
A couple of the new wizards intensify their wall-eyed Ed-staring. Bones sighs. “Curses are
curses because they’re cast with intent. That’s why unforgivables have no legal defense. If
you cast the killing curse, you had to want your target dead. If you cast the Cruciatus, you
had to want them in agony. Fiend fire isn’t outlawed just because it’s damn near impossible to
control. You have to want your target to burn, and burn in cursed fire until there’s nothing
left, not even ash.” She purses her mouth slightly. “Your… thermite does not sound quite the
same, if you claim muggles can make it. But we’ve learned to use caution when it comes to
these sorts of things.”
Pirate snorts. “And maybe look a little less like a junior necromancer if ye don’t want people
calling you a dark wizard.”
Hughes makes another can’t-hold-the-cackle noise. “My brother’s not a dark anything,” Al
says, politely bemused in a mildly warning way. “He’s one of the most caring and optimistic
people I know, actually. He’s just goth.”
“Okay, for the billionth time, black is practical,” Ed says, pointing a finger, because he’s not
about to tell these wizards about how technically he has committed necromancy, or at least
tried, and lost a leg for it; they already have their lord vagrancy resurrecting himself. “And
so’s the fuckin’ leather! You try making pants last more’n a week when one of your knees is
metal.”
“Goth?” Bones pronounces awkwardly, raising her eyebrows as everybody else once again
starts staring at Ed’s legs.
Al waves slightly at Ed. “I know it’s hard to believe, but he’s dressed really professionally
right now. For him. There’s usually a lot more chokers and spikes than this.”
“And it looks great,” Ed says pointedly. Sometimes he can’t understand how Al can be so
determinedly sartorially boring and still be related to him.
Al gives him a faintly pitying look. “You wore a dog collar to a six-officer performance
review panel last year.”
“I was making a point!”
“That you share a wardrobe with a police dog?”
“I might as well if all they want is for me to bark like one - ”
“Fullmetal’s dress code misdemeanors aside,” Mustang cuts in. “Alchemy does not operate
on quite the same principles as magic. There is no emotional requirement to array activation,
and neither thermite nor electromagnetic radiation are inherently destructive. As Fullmetal
mentioned, thermite is used in welding and construction and electromagnetic radiation is only
harmful in specific concentrations. In practical terms both are replicable by equipment and
occasionally appear as natural phenomena.”
Blah, blah, science isn’t evil, if this pack of zebras hasn’t gotten that yet they’re not going to.
“Great, cool, nobody’s a fuckin’ dark wizard because that’d be stupid as all hell, hooray,” Ed
says impatiently. “Let’s talk tactics. Like how yours are shit, specifically. Y’all ever heard of
teamwork?”
Chapter End Notes
i know goth is a word that wouldnt exist in amestris bc the etymology is - yeah. The
joke was too strong not to make. Just. Do what we did with Kelvin and let’s all
preteeeend it’s an amestrisan proper noun equivaleeeeeeent
Chapter 55
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Our tactics,” Pirate repeats.
“Yeah your tactics. You coulda just worked with Lemonface over there, and suddenly I’d be
actually fighting two people instead of one twice,” Ed says, gesturing. “Like, next time? Yell
hey! Let’s flank the bitch! And then you get to tag team instead of getting picked off, ‘cuz
sure I didn’t land shit on you but half your force was out in the first two minutes. You didn’t
try to cover each others’ backs at all.”
A couple of wizards in the back exchange glances, but Bones just sighs. “Mad eye was
holding back on you.”
Ed stares at her. “Yeah. Yeah, I would fuckin’ hope so,” he says. “Because, and I cannot
fuckin’ stress this enough, we are not trying to kill each other.”
“I mean that he could have disillusioned himself and cast area-effect jinxes,” Bones says with
a touch of exasperation. “And those you can't deflect or dodge without a shield.”
“Well sure, but that doesn’t - wait fuck that’s why it disrupted the array,” Ed blurts, forgetting
all about his lecture on the power of teamwork. “It disrupts energy as a function, it’s - yeah,
okay, if you’re dealing with fields as well as rays that makes sense…. you want it to corrupt
the energy deliberately, otherwise what’s to stop someone from, like, levitating you with your
shield. Fuck, that’s complicated, what’s the equation for that? Please tell me you know. Or,
like, anyone. Who invented it?”
“There is no one individual credited with the invention of the Protego,” Beardy says after a
short pause where Bones gets the they let this into the military? look again. “It is a Roman
spell, I believe, though as it arrived to them already codified it may have been Etruscan… I
don’t believe there to be a relevant equation, however.”
“No equation,” Ed repeats, back to wondering if he’s ever going to hit an upper limit on how
annoyed and depressed this backwater can make him. “Of course. Why would there be? That
would make way too much fuckin’ sense. Fucking… fuck it, whatever. Look, if I was one of
your death eaties or your lord volgograd or something, how do you go at me? What are you
expecting, what’s worked on them in the past?”
“A good Protego will work against most death eaters’ spells, if you’re not up against you
know who,” Bones says. “But any fighting wizard can cast a shield breaking charm. They go
down just like anyone else if they’re hit, but they attack in groups.”
“One breaks your shield, another gets you in the back,” Pirate grunts.
“They’re cowards, too,” Bones says, bitter again. “They attack when someone’s alone, or
when they know they outnumber their target. They know most of them wouldn’t be able to
take a decent witch or wizard in a fair fight.”
Ed does not point out that fight fair usually ends up a synonym for lose, but he’s pretty sure
his face is saying it for him; no wonder Pirate and Lemons didn’t work together, if they’re
interested in fighting fair. “It was mentioned that the enemy’s go-to in the past has been
individual assassination,” Hawkeye says, also kindly not bringing up that ‘try to outnumber
your opponent’ isn’t cowardice, it’s just good tactics.
“Assassination’s too pretty a word,” Bones says blackly. “It’s thug murder. They’ll break into
a house, torture and kill everyone inside and light the dark mark over the scene once they’re
done.”
Pirate leans over and spits on the ground. “They like their ambushes. When someone
manages to call for help we send out who we can. Aurors do threes, but we haven’t the men.
The death eaters are usually twos or fours.” He zeroes in on Ed. “You need a partner. You’re
quick but you won’t get far without backup.”
“Uh, I have backup,” Ed says, offended. “Who do you think all these guys in uniforms are,
my cheer team?”
“You told me this was your op alone,” Pirate says, raising the couple of butchered caterpillars
he’s got passing for eyebrows.
“Yeah, before we found out your lord veranda is fucking armed with philosopher’s stones,”
Ed says. “I’m not suicidal. Look - are the wand sticks seriously all they use? What about like,
cars and shit?” Well, they teleport everywhere, so maybe not. They keep saying they’ve never
seen alchemy in combat before, too, so they might be lucky and lord wastebasket’s alchemist
is some twiggy research wonk with the strategic planning of a dead stoat and the combat
aptitude of warm butter. “No guns or anything?”
Pirate sighs. “Anything a gun can do you can get from a wand, lad.”
“Really? You can get hollowpoints at seven-sixty meters per second?” Ed says sarcastically,
as Bones gives Pirate a vaguely surprised kind of glance. “Solid projectiles are harder to deal
with than light. If I’d tried that rebound trick and Lemons here had a handgun I’d have a giant
fucking hole in my arm and probably shrapnel every-fuckin’-where else too.”
“There are curses that would have very much the same effect,” Bones tells him, a bit dry.
“Yeah, but they’re delivered via waveform, not metal going faster than you can see,” Ed says
exasperatedly. Pirate seems to have some inkling of what guns are, but the rest of these tulips
clearly don’t. And they really should know, if only because the way their luck is going,
Havoc’s gonna put his sidearm down or something for one second and someone’s gonna go
‘hee hee, what’s this?’ and die horribly. “Look - we didn’t demo our projectile weapons
because you can’t spar with guns. There’s no fuckin’ ‘paralysis only’ setting, it’s lethal force
or nothing.”
“Good,” Pirate says, perv eye swinging over Hawkeye’s holsters and then back to Ed. “Ye
any good with them?”
Ed scowls reflexively, half because he should not be looking at anyone with that fucking
Clothes Optional eyeball and half because he is sick of the fucking gun question. “No. I don’t
use guns.”
“Why not?”
“Because my job is bringing in alive people,” Ed snaps.
“Lieutenant Colonel Elric is not a war alchemist,” Hawkeye steps in. “He’s a field
investigator and research specialist, and he’s here as a subject matter expert with experience
in the enemy’s specific background as it was relayed to General Armstrong. Our original
understanding was that we would be dismantling a terrorist cell via arrest and detainment.
While Lieutenant Colonel Elric has extensive experience in apprehending targets, in this kind
of engagement his skillset is best deployed as defensive fortification.”
When arrest and detainment are off the table, she means. “I find stuff out, I fix shit,” Ed says
shortly. “I’m not actually the first option for ranged combat.” Or the second. Or third. He
doesn’t use firearms, or alkahestry, and his transmutation in combat is either to terraform or
give himself a melee weapon - which had bounced right off Lemons’ shield.
The forcefields act solid. Ed looks at Hawkeye, then at Pirate. “Is your forcefield always
attached to your stick?”
Pirate clearly did not take the same mental turn on this conversational highway and frowns at
him. “What?”
“Your shield. Can you set it up at a distance,” Ed says impatiently. “Like, can you shield that
tree over there instead of centering it on yourself. Can you?”
“That would not be a Protego but rather a ward,” Beardy speaks up. “There are several
charms that behave similarly, however. Are you looking to have something protected?”
“No, we need to test bullet ricochet,” Ed says, mostly to Hawkeye. “If I can stand on one of
their shield things, that’s gonna give some kinda rebound.”
She also casts a speculative eye over the tree. “We’d have to set up a range. And address
soundproofing.”
Yeah, gunshots in some civilian backyard are probably not gonna go over great with the
whole secret safehouse thing. “Tomorrow for that too then,” Ed says, then, for the wizards,
“If it’s just gonna fling it right back at us we gotta find out so we don’t shoot while they’ve
got shields up and accidentally frag whoever’s standing nearby at the exact wrong angle.
Also,” back to Hawkeye, “you’re gonna need a range probably to test out the, y’know -” Ed
waves his hands around in a way that hopefully conveys alchemically constructed sniper rifle
Mustang’s promised to make you. “Kerchatka or T-60 or whichever. With the chromoly.”
“Kerchatka,” Hawkeye confirms. “I understand the operation sites we’ll be touring tomorrow
will be mostly rural,” she adds to the wizards. “We’ll arrange a firearm demonstration there if
conditions allow.”
“Guns are your main arsenal, then,” Pirate says, running both eyes from Al on the left to
Arget all the way on the right. “Five soldiers and two alchemists.”
“Don’t forget our charm, wit and indomitable sense of humor,” Hughes says brightly.
“Critical to any endeavor,” Beardy says solemnly, like he thinks Hughes is laughing with
them and not at them.
Bones, though, is watching Mustang, and it looks like she might be starting to catch on that
there is a war alchemist here and it’s not fuckin’ Ed. “Livvie says you’re the only one in
Amestris who does the kind of alchemy you do.”
Mustang’s expression, though, has gone totally buttered over, vacantly attentive in that way
that makes him look like a beautiful overbred show collie trying very hard to understand
what sit means. It’s not a super obvious change given Mustang already goes around looking
one good knock on the head away from total brain death, but these days Ed can tell when the
switch flips. “I am.”
When it’s obvious that there’s gonna be nothing further, Bones prompts, “What would that
be?”
“I work with fire,” Mustang says placidly.
“Flame Alchemist,” Bones says.
“Indeed.”
Pirate jerks his chin at Ed. “So like his thermite?”
Mustang shrugs genteelly, the motion slight with his arms folded over his chest. “In some
ways, yes.”
Bones frowns slightly. “But you’re the only one who does your kind of alchemy?”
“He doesn’t do solid state stuff,” Ed dismisses, waving a hand. He can see why Mustang’s
back to the airhead act given the wizards all just talked real concerned about how using fire
makes you some kinda psycho arsonist; he’s not giving them the full performance, thank
fuck, probably because they do need the wizards to take them seriously, but it’s definitely not
a great idea to lay all their cards out in one go here. “Alchemists specialize. Thermite’s
metals, most explosives are combination metals and earths and I dunno if you can tell but this
guy wouldn’t touch dirt at gunpoint.”
Hawkeye’s mouth twitches and Al looks like he wants to groan, so Ed’s chalking that up as a
win. “Some of us do care about the uniform code, Fullmetal,” Mustang says all socialitepissy, then slides his gaze over Ed in a way that feels like highlighter scribbled over the coal
dust probably still ground into his cheeks and the way he never did manage to shave this
morning. “Among other standards.”
Pirate snorts, shifting his weight off his peg leg a bit as his pervert eye does its own up-anddown over Mustang. “There’s more important things than keeping yer hands clean,” he says,
and Ed has the deeply weird moment of realizing Pirate’s siding with him here instead of
agreeing that Ed’s a mudspawn from the hick lagoon. “Fire’s all you do, then?”
“It tends to suffice,” Mustang says.
“And it’s that different from Elric’s, is it?”
“Well, I certainly can’t make things burn underwater,” Mustang says, which is true and so
utterly misleading it makes Ed nearly inhale spit keeping down the laugh. “And what I work
with rarely reaches half the temperatures Fullmetal described.”
Mustang follows this with an exasperated look at Ed, which reads as disapproval of a reckless
subordinate, lack of ability to actually do anything about it, and an extra garnish of vague
professional jealousy on top. The wizards probably can’t see the edge of keep laughing, brat
that’s underpinning all of it. “Of course, he’s our youngest ever State Alchemist for a
reason.”
Ed leers back, because he is going to keep laughing. “Yeah, bastard’s got a long way to go to
get on my level.”
Mustang smiles at the wizards like there you have it , generic and a little tight with one corner
of his mouth tipping up like haha, yeah, this kid alchemist is a bigger deal than me, but I’m
all mature and cool and shit so I’m not gonna make a donkey’s cock out of it. Publicly.
And they’re buying it. Watching this shit go down is always a little like watching a baby
stroller roll into traffic, and Ed always gets the vague urge to yell watch out or something,
only this pram is full of magic morons. Psycho’s the only one who saw what Mustang did to
the bog art thing, but a bunch of these wizards were there both times Mustang took his ditz
face off to explain how stupid they were for having one shit guard on Hairy and not teaching
their shit wizard children not to kidnap people. It’s fucking insane how half the time people
don’t even recognize Mustang’s teeth when he shows them, and not even just with the
manipulation - Ed cannot fucking believe how many people still buy into Mustang’s ohteehee-I-just-do-a-lot-of-paperwork after seeing him blow something up.
Meanwhile, you put on one pair of leather pants and everybody’s fucking acting like you’re a
felon.
Okay, Ed is a felon, but it’s not because of the pants.
Most of the wizards are back to looking at Ed, though Beardy’s unreadable with his hands
politely folded together in his sleeves; Lemons is stony-faced beside him. He’s also staring at
Ed, still, though now with the look of someone who holds a grudge - which is getting him
Al’s attention, though Al’s not nearly so obvious about it. That’s almost enough to make Ed
feel sorry for him, though not actually enough not to meet Lemons’ glare head on and wink
again.
Bones, though, is looking at Mustang like she’s caught a flicker of black and orange stripes
where everybody else is seeing green tiger-free jungle. General Armstrong clearly didn’t tell
her everything, given she’s all worried about them not all being alchemists, but if… Livvie…
wrote to her about both of them in enough detail to complain about Ed being vain, she
probably at least told Bones Mustang’s not useless in a fight. Not all the time, anyway.
She’s definitely running the numbers on something, watching Mustang like that. “Would you
care to demonstrate?”
“Certainly,” Mustang says, and Ed automatically takes a couple of steps back with all the
other Amestrisans before he realizes that might not be such a smart thing to do given they’re
still pretending that the most intellectually grueling thing Mustang’s ever done is reschedule a
hair appointment. Mustang just sighs, though, and uncrosses his arms to bring his fingertips
together, the barest crackle of energy playing over his hands. “Fuel, oxidizer, energy, redox,”
he recites negligently, separating his hands and using one finger to write out the basic
equation for generic air combustion to hang airborne in glowing fiery symbols. “Fire, in
chemical terms. With the application of alchemy, it can be directed and controlled.”
Ed squints. That’s not fire. It kinda looks it, sure, but it’s not moving like flames at all, and
Mustang pointedly didn’t use his gloves - as far as the wizards know, Ed realizes, every
alchemist in Amestris can transmute with just a clap, and none of them know the significance
of the Flame Alchemist’s infamous gloves. Mustang activated a different gas array - neon,
argon? That’s a pressure control and faking a diode to ionize the gas on top of concentrating
it in place, and argon’s third most common in the atmosphere but it wouldn’t glow red like
that, neon’s what glows red. Where did he get neon. Right up until this moment Ed would not
have assumed Mustang capable of elemental switch via subatomic manipulation -
- but that’s bullshit, of fuckin’ course he can. Ugh.
Individual alchemists aren’t exactly paragons of sharing when it comes to their techniques,
especially not combat alchemists, and Ed knows better than to dig about Mustang’s gloves,
though realistically the only thing there that would be news to Ed would be the variables and
control methods in Mustang’s specific directivity formulas. The real secret to flame alchemy
is that it takes insane control to direct molecular bounce in gases, and most alchemists who
try to recreate the results blow themselves out their own chimneys because they can’t handle
the backscatter.
Mustang does it in combat. The man’s a freak. Of fucking course anyone who can handle that
level of gas shaping has the necessary control for subatomic shit. Mustang does more
intensive work than this just by making sure he doesn’t blow his own fingers off every time
he snaps and Ed’s an idiot who fell for the lazyass fuckaround goddamn smokescreen again.
He of all people shouldn’t be tripping headfirst into any fucking assumptions, because
Mustang digs those ditches on purpose and he’s down there setting bear traps. Ed especially
shouldn’t be any kind of surprised after the fuckin’ carbon, because clearly Mustang has been
practicing.
And now he’s got a two-stage array going, transmuting and shaping the gas and then ionizing
it to make it look like he’s writing in fire. And he’s talking while doing it. What a bastard.
Pirate’s examining the slowly fading letters critically. “That’s it?”
Because to anybody who doesn’t know exactly what he’s doing, this little party trick looks
like a couple sneezes’ worth of pretty lightshow. Showing off what a nightmare he is while
looking stupid harmless, that’s fucking classic bastard. Sometimes Ed just wants to kick him.
Mustang just shrugs again, refolding his arms. “Scaling up in this environment would present
a safety hazard.”
“Got a city block you don’t need?” Hughes murmurs very, very quietly from right behind Ed,
which is morbid as fuck and makes him nearly snort out a sinus.
It also makes Bones’ gaze snap off Mustang and onto him. Ed’s pretty sure she didn’t hear
Hughes, but she definitely saw how all of them gave Mustang the room, and it was obvious
enough that none of the other wizards could miss it either. “What else do we need to test?”
Hawkeye asks Ed, before Bones can ask Mustang to set someone’s hair on fire or something.
“Bullet ricochet off their forcefields, transmutation rebound off same,” Ed counts off on one
hand. “Space manipulation and matter compression, limits of mind control and how they do
their memory erasing shit -”
“Implantation of false memories, or however else they explain away sudden cases of
amnesia,” Al says. “Magic-automail interaction.”
“Freight transport,” Havoc says, then, when everyone glances at him, “unless you just
teleport cargo too? I mean. How do you move lots of people, or… supplies, or - anything in
quantities, really. Are there magic rail cars? Trucks?”
“There are… some charmed cars, yes,” Bones says with a slight hesitation and a look at
Havoc like why the fuck are you asking this , as Baldy suddenly looks inexplicably guilty.
“Authorized ones are generally reserved for official ministry business. Chauffeuring large
groups and the like. Any accompanying luggage is made to fit, I suppose.”
“Generally anything too big gets taken care of with a shrinking charm,” Mustache
contributes.
Ed groans and drags his palms down his face, gloves scraping grittily over his cheeks. More
spacetime fucking? “Okay, somebody explain that right now,” he demands. “Like, what is
this mass compression shit? Have you weaponized that?”
“Weaponized what,” Pirate says, zoning back into the conversation from where he’s been
eyeballing Mustang.
“This yippee-double-your-yard shit,” Ed says impatiently, waving an arm around at the
scalped lawn. “If you’re genuinely folding space, throw that at your opponent and have them
trip head over ass into the dimensional, whatever, accordion and boom, they’re trapped until
you unfold them out. Unless that’d fuckin’ woodchipper them. In which case maybe don’t do
that.”
“Dimensional accordion?” Beardy asks, eyes threatening to twinkle again.
Ed gives him a flat look and sticks a thumb at Bones. “Whatever y’all did to expand this yard
by like forty meters. And all these benches and shit weren’t here until she waved her stick
neither.”
“That’s an enchantment built into the grounds,” Bones says. “I merely activated it. Laying
that kind of working can take months - it’s goblin-made, this one, that’s why it has all the
frills. Self-lighting lampposts, even.” She blows out a breath, eyeing Ed. “Workings like this
take months and usually have safeguards built in to make sure nothing living gets trapped
when the space contracts. I must admit the thought of using it as a... weapon never
occurred.”
Well, if nobody can fall into this freak shit by accident, this doily collective might not even
realize it can be dangerous - though clearly someone did, if they thought to safeguard against
it in the first place. “Well, that’s my job in a nutshell,” Ed says sardonically. “Pointing at shit
and asking annoying questions like hey, can that kill you? Ugh.” He blows out a breath.
“Okay, automail and guns tomorrow, let’s see how bad it’ll fuck our shit up. And everybody
gets to go to the pickled craving party.”
“Can’t wait,” Hughes says, with what Ed can tell is genuine anticipation, because Intel
doesn’t just take crazies, it makes them.
“If it’s an area safe enough to test your guns in,” Bones says evenly, directly to Mustang,
“it’ll be safe to demonstrate some of your alchemy, won’t it?”
Mustang smiles all agreeable, like what Bones is asking is to light some candles on a
nameday cake. “I don’t foresee any problems.”
Bones doesn’t look quite satisfied but she does nod, posture settling back on her heels
slightly. Mustang’s walking the line between keeping his shit under wraps and seeming
totally incompetent, Ed can tell that much, but the evasiveness is kinda obvious at this point
and he’s honestly not sure why Bones at least isn’t poking it harder with a stick. Well - she is
the only person here in actual law enforcement, and if Ed had to run an op with a bunch of
excitable vigilante civilians he wouldn’t want to be doing strategy and capability rundowns
with every bright-eyed idiot sitting witness at the table. Like - that’s gotta be it. Not every
wizard can be terminally incurious, can they?
Whatever, not his problem. “I’d also like to have a conversation about your available medical
care,” Al speaks up, leaning in slightly to glance across the entire crop of wizards. “Ah -
hello everyone, not all of us have met, have we? I’m Alphonse Elric, I’m a medical specialist
here on General Mustang’s behalf. I suppose I’m asking if I have a counterpart I could meet
on your end.”
“We haven’t a healer,” Bones tells him, mouth pulling slightly in a way that indicates she’s
less than happy about that. “But everyone knows at least some first aid -”
A horrible noise interrupts her. Everyone looks at Ed, whose stomach obligingly growls
again. “Ah,” Beardy says, smiling faintly under the beard. “We are a bit past dinnertime,
aren’t we?”
Ed bares some teeth on principle, but usually when his body starts making that noise it means
it’s moved past threats and is informing him it’s about to cut power to everything that isn’t
food-seeking behavior. Bones sighs and shakes one sleeve of her black dress back, checking a
pretty normal-looking wristwatch. “We may as well end things here for tonight. I should be
able to take a half day tomorrow if nothing goes belly up - fudge is making noises about
summoning you to a hearing, by the way, and the Wizengamot’s not arguing,” she adds to
Beardy, brusque. “If they vote Veritaserum you’d better have a hell of a truth lined up.”
“Malfoy doesn’t believe potter’s truly missing, then,” Pirate says grimly. “If he’s forcing a
hearing he suspects you’re behind his disappearance. You’d better preempt that questioning,
Albus.”
This Malfoy guy a-fuckin’-gain. The rest of that nonsense is all Mustang’s problem, but once
Ed and Al have a working null array Malfoy is gonna be his problem. It doesn’t sound like
it’s doing anyone any good to let him keep running around. “Thank you for the warning,”
Beardy says, inclining his head at Bones. “We will prepare accordingly. I’m afraid we may
have to miss dinner once more, Arthur - do apologize to Molly for us, will you?”
“Not a problem,” Baldy says, though kind of distracted since he’s looking curiously at Al.
“Roy,” Beardy continues, nodding to Mustang. “There are a few things sever us and I must
set in motion tonight that cannot wait. We’ll be by first thing tomorrow morning and
determine if we can be of any assistance to you.”
Mustang gives Beardy a nice, accepting I fucking hate you smile. “Of course. Best of luck.”
Beardy smiles his own bullshit smile and nods bye-bye around the rest of the wizards as he
steps away from everyone, Lemons joining him with one last stone-faced look at Ed. “Until
tomorrow,” Beardy says, and the two of them disappear with a simultaneous crack.
Bones blows out a long breath. “Until tomorrow,” she echoes, sounding just a little bit
sarcastic about it. “Well. Let’s have that healer chat over dinner then, shall we? Might as well
eat.”
Chapter End Notes
mustang: don’t worry :) i’m so fucking stupid ;)
bones: liv. girl. what the FUCK did you send me
Chapter 56
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“That was a forfeit,” Fred argues.
“Yeah, but Mad Eye didn’t knock him out,” Sirius says goodnaturedly. “Those were the
terms.”
“A forfeit negates the bet,” George continues as they head down the stairs; Mrs. Weasley
yelled for Fred and George just as Dumbledore and Snape Disapparated, and given everyone
outside was breaking up anyway for dinner they figured they might as well all come back
down. “Because the match was called off, essentially -”
“- so neither of us wins, since neither of them did.”
“We didn’t bet on how the match would end, we bet on whether Moody would knock Elric
cold or not,” Sirius says happily. “‘Course, we can make a new bet, if you like -”
Hermione’s not listening. The meeting out in the yard didn’t last long but that was still… a
lot of information. Especially the fight. It wasn’t anything like dueling club second year, or
even that horrible chess match first year where Ron had directed pieces to brutally smash and
break each other. Hermione already knew Elric was fast from how he stole their wands, but to
see Moody cast wordlessly, hex after hex, keeping up with a moving target while the ground
shook and walls rose and dropped and reformed around him - that, she’d realized, looking out
the window, was what a serious duel looked like.
And they weren’t even really trying to hurt each other.
Hermione feels her stomach tightening in that way it’s been doing more and more lately,
twisting up in a hot, acidic sort of fear. Voldemort is back. They aren’t dealing with petty
insults and schoolyard jinxes anymore. This won’t be Malfoy and Crabbe and Goyle; this will
be their parents, fully grown Death Eaters, wizards and witches who have tortured and killed
people. And Harry’s survived a lot, but he’s only fifteen and barely knows any real fighting
spells. Neither does Ron. Hermione can’t even Apparate yet, and if it comes to treating
anything more serious than a cut...
The Order is already filing in through the back door when they reach the ground floor;
“Madam Bones and Shacklebolt will be joining us for dinner, dear,” Mr. Weasley calls into
the kitchen, then notices Hermione and the rest. “Ah - and here’s everyone else. Er. Do you
want us in the dining room, Molly?”
Hermione keeps her eyes on the Amestrisans as Mrs. Weasley pops out of the kitchen,
looking harried, and chivvies them into the dining room while snapping for Fred and George
to help set the table. Wizarding Britain doesn’t have an army, hasn’t since Godric
Gryffindor’s time. Aurors aren’t soldiers. These people are soldiers, though it hadn’t really
hit home when it was just Elric with his attitude, constant garbled swearing and… outfit.
Even when the other Amestrisans arrived they hadn’t seemed very imposing at first; most of
them are shorter than Ron, and the uniforms look fussy and impractical with the bright color,
hanging braids and long skirt-thing over their trousers.
Now Hermione can’t help but think of aposematic coloration. Elric and the long-haired
blonde woman had both shaken off the Imperius like it was nothing, they were apparently all
immune to Legilimency, and whatever Snape saw in Elric’s mind before being thrown out
had genuinely alarmed him. The woman removed four guns before she was Imperiused,
handing them over to Elric with the casual deliberacy of someone who knows exactly how to
use them. And Elric had pulled oxygen out of Hermione’s lungs , just by clapping his hands,
and told her he was being nice because he could’ve ripped them up instead.
Hermione did not like that.
Sirius is clearly just thrilled that Elric made a fool of Snape, and while Harry’s warier he’s
just as clearly caught up in Sirius’s enthusiasm. Fred and George are fascinated. Ron is solid
beside Hermione, blessedly unchanged in his suspicion of Elric, and while Ginny is still -
well - interested , Ginny hangs upside down off brooms by her knees for fun and at least
Hermione knows she can, has and will hex the boys she fancies. Elric gave their wands back,
and Fred and George did kidnap Alphonse in a - well - not very bright maneuver - but he did
take away their wands when they stunned him and might do it again, if he feels like it. And
the Amestrisans might be here to help the Order, but they’re not exactly friendly.
The more Hermione thinks about what they just heard and saw, the more she wants to make
like a mandrake and scream hysterically into a pot of dirt for a good long while. The way
Elric had said Voldemort was armed with Philosopher’s Stones - he made it sound like a
weapon. Hermione’s never come across anything about Philosopher’s Stone being used as
anything other than a restorative elixir and gold production in all her research, but that
doesn’t mean there isn’t anything; she’d been a first year after all, with barely a clue how to
navigate the Restricted Section of the library. And Elric said stones. Plural. And none of the
Order had corrected him.
Hermione should have tried to get to Harry and Ron sooner, this summer. The situation is
clearly worse than she knew, and between the fact that they’d been forbidden from properly
writing to Harry and now Moody and Bones both admitting they have barely any information
on the Death Eaters... She should have been learning new spells, teaching Harry and Ron,
planning - preparing. She’d wanted to spend time with her parents, go with them on vacation
and to see Auntie and Grandpa and everybody. She’s been so relieved at the normalcy, the
steadiness of her family’s lives, their uncomplicated hugs. She’d fallen gladly into the
desperate complacency of reassuring herself that Dumbledore had his reasons, that the
greatest wizard in Britain was there for them, to face the foe.
She can’t depend on that anymore. What if they hadn’t gone looking for a library with Elric
yesterday? What if Ginny hadn’t demanded they go see Harry, and he’d been alone at that
park, and the dementors had overwhelmed his Patronus and Kissed him? What if next time,
Voldemort sends something worse, something they have no idea how to defend against? How
is Hermione going to feel, if something - happens tomorrow and instead of studying shield
spells over the summer she’d been on the beach in Côte d’Ivoire trying not to think about
anything but Mum complaining about tan lines?
And if Voldemort wins - what’s going to happen to her parents?
Term starts in two weeks. Mrs. Weasley hadn’t focused much on why Fred and George had
gone to Harry’s house; she’d softened a bit and gotten distracted when Fred and George had
protested that they only wanted to pick up Harry’s things since he’d been transplanted so
abruptly and everyone else was so busy, so the Invisibility Cloak and Marauder’s Map are
still stuffed somewhere in with Harry’s things. They’ll keep trying to get answers, however it
takes. They’ve already managed to get more information today than all of the last three
months combined.
Hermione just has to keep paying attention. And looking for opportunities.
Mr. Weasley joined Mrs. Weasley in the kitchen, Moody stumping after him muttering
something about flasks and never eating what you didn’t see prepared and constant vigilance
- though not without his eye whirling around the room and clearly fixing his gaze through the
back of his head as he leaves. Sirius sits down with Harry on one side and Lupin on the other,
Tonks and Shacklebolt and Emmeline Vance joining Bill in settling as well; Madam Bones
runs a gimlet eye over them and rests lingeringly on Sirius, who gives a tight, uncomfortable
smile in return, before she turns to Alphonse. “What do you need to talk to a healer for? Do
you need supplies?”
“Oh, no, we have everything we need so far,” Alphonse says politely; Elric is sniffing the air
like a dog, distractedly enough that Alphonse has to pull him out of the way of the rest of the
Amestrisans coming in through the doorway. “I mainly want to get an idea of what’s
available here, and the methods you use to treat some things.”
“I have experience with a variety of healing charms,” Lupin says unobtrusively, meeting
Alphonse’s gaze. “I’m not a healer, but I deal with minor injuries with some regularity.”
“What kinds?” Alphonse asks him, taking his brother by the arm to sit them both at the table.
Elric sits, looks around blankly, then down at his empty plate, seeming confused and betrayed
to find it empty. Hermione sits down across them as unobtrusively as possible - she’d sit
across Alphonse, but the way Sirius and Harry have taken the corner puts her across Elric
instead. Alphonse leans around him to keep talking to Lupin. “I’m assuming you deal mostly
with first aid?”
“Lacerations, bruises, sometimes cracked bone,” Lupin says, taking his own seat as the
Amestrisans start filling up the other side of the table. “Spell damage is more complex and I
can usually only mitigate some of the symptoms - things like nausea, dizziness. You are a
healer yourself?”
“Qi specialist and Alkahestric clinician,” Alphonse says in agreeing tones. “Though I’ve
patched up my brother enough to qualify on first aid as well. What do you do when someone
is injured beyond your capabilities? Do you have access to medical facilities?”
“There is a wizarding hospital,” Lupin confirms. “St. Mungo’s. They take on everything
regular healing charms can’t handle.”
“And it’s safe to access?” the Amestrisan in glasses - Hughes? - leans in to ask. “Given the
extrajudicial nature of your operation here.”
“St. Mungo’s treats everybody,” Lupin says, pausing as Elric whaps his palms together, takes
a fork in each hand and turns them into two sets of chopsticks in a crackle of blue light,
putting one set in front of his brother. “The healers take their responsibilities very seriously -”
He’s interrupted by Fred and George throwing the kitchen door back open and sending bowls
of food skidding onto the table, casserole and mashed potatoes and green beans shuddering as
they slide to a halt. “Mum says get started -”
“- there’s so many of us, she’s still taking things off the stove. Bon appetit!”
Elric lunges for the food like a starving dingo, pausing only to dump some casserole on
Alphonse’s plate before shoveling half the bowl onto his and attacking with his chopsticks.
Everyone stares in alarm at the sudden carnage - even casserole doesn’t deserve that - but
after a moment Shacklebolt huffs under his breath and starts passing plates down to Tonks
and everyone collectively decides the scene is not worth commenting on. Fred and George
whisk a few more bowls from the kitchen before sprawling into their own chairs, dropping
down between Ron and Lupin - and when they do Mustang leans forward slightly, just
enough to look directly at them.
He’s got his elbows on the table and fingers laced loosely below his chin, his half-lidded eyes
lending a dreamy cast to his expression. When Hermione first saw him he reminded her of
Dr. Liu, who’s one of her dad’s friends from dental school and came over for dinner a lot
when her parents hosted parties all through primary school; he’s got the same kind of
cheekbones and eyelashes that make Dad grumble while Mum sighs dramatically and uses
words like phenotypically unfair.
Hermione tries not to remember how much of a crush her nine year old self had on Dr. Liu.
Dr. Liu was nice and funny and taught her multiplication tricks one time and he definitely
never smiled like Mustang had when he told them Elric could eat their wands for all he
cared.
And Mustang is leaning in like that to look right at Fred and George, who pause in their
chair-jostling to look back. “Mister and Mister Weasley,” Mustang says in an easy tone. “I
understand you are over the age of majority here and thus legal adults. I wouldn’t presume to
insult you by treating you as anything less. Are we going to have any other incidents between
you and any of my staff?”
He sounds calm and genuinely curious, nothing more. Hermione’s seen and heard plenty of
professors dress down Fred and George over the years, everyone has, but she’s fairly certain
no one has ever addressed their rulebreaking like this. Like if there are any other incidents,
Mustang won’t get angry, won’t get upset, he’ll merely… focus his attention. All of it. On
you.
It’s not a threat. It’s not at all a threat, and Hermione can’t quite figure out how nevertheless
it so obviously, plainly is one. Fred and George haven’t failed to notice, staring back at
Mustang in open fascination, and Bill is slowly lowering his fork from his mouth like he’s
not sure whether he should do something about this. Sirius and Lupin are exchanging glances
and Shacklebolt is looking at Madam Bones, who is watching Mustang like he’s an egg about
to hatch and she has no idea whether it’s going to be a chicken or a basilisk.
And the rest of the Amestrisans are all watching them right back, if unobtrusively - the only
one not watching is Elric, who has now lifted his plate in one hand and is tipping food into
his mouth directly.
“No,” Fred says. The silence hasn’t even lasted more than a second or two, but it feels much
longer.
“No,” George agrees, both of them watching Mustang right back.
“No more -”
“- incidents.”
Mustang smiles, and the tension is suddenly gone as if it never existed. “Wonderful.” He
reaches over without looking, plants a hand on Elric’s forearm and exerts pressure until he
lowers his plate from his face. “Wha’,” Elric snaps, chopsticks jerking in an abortively
stabby way.
“Manners,” Mustang says mildly, still not looking at him, and the room eases further as Sirius
chuckles a little; it’s not humor, just relief.
“Ain’t got none,” Elric says belligerently, somehow back to eating as he talks, which causes a
few more smiles around the table over the appallingly grating scrape of his chopsticks.
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley aren’t in the room, Hermione notes. Bill is, but he’s not saying
anything - and not that Fred and George need it. They don’t seem intimidated, just thoughtful,
but Hermione can’t make herself relax. Doesn’t want to relax. If what Elric said was true, this
man - slightly built, pleasant-faced and polite - had done exactly what Voldemort at the
height of his power had failed to do, for years, and taken over a government.
It’s not that she didn’t believe it; she doesn’t know anything about their country, or their
political system, or their military - but she hadn’t been able to picture it. She still can’t picture
it. Coups are two-sentence mentions in her World History primers from year 5 and vaguely
alluded scenes from American movies she hadn’t been allowed to watch. Now, though, she
can definitely see that smile turned on - on someone like the Minister, on whole governments,
and with it that unflinching attention, serene and dead as the smile of the Gizan sphinx.
And then Mustang turns to look at Hermione. She feels her knuckles tighten on her fork,
involuntary. Ron tenses beside her. “I understand this is a stressful time for all of us,”
Mustang says, still smiling, eyes calm and clear and holding hers. “But we really don’t want
any more accidents, don’t you think?”
Hermione’s mouth is dry, but a part of her wants to say - or what? But she knows what.
Alphonse knows about the Cloak and the Map, and he told it to all the Amestrisans outright -
items they don’t want their parents to know about. And Mustang knows he’s got that
leverage.
“No,” she says aloud. Her voice comes out calmer than she expects it to. She’s not getting the
same patient look Fred and George got, but there’s no warmth in Mustang’s eyes. He doesn’t
seem anything like her parents’ friend anymore.
“We really are sorry,” Ginny adds, leaning in wide-eyed and looking fairly convincing from
Fred and George’s other side. “We didn’t mean things to get out of hand.”
“Understandably.” Mustang gives her a tolerant glance. “Of course, it’s not me who’s owed
an apology.”
They all look at Elric, but he’s going at his plate like a whale that’s just gotten a turbopowered water pump installed in his baleen and he’s trying to pack a month’s worth of krillstraining into the next two minutes. Instead Alphonse looks up, from where he’s been
examining his own untouched plateful of casserole. His eyes are a deeper gold than his
brother’s, his nose straighter; his hair is a little darker too, his cheekbones and jaw sharpened
by the way it’s cropped close at his temples.
He meets Ginny’s gaze, then Hermione’s. He smiles. “We all make mistakes sometimes.”
Hermione can’t make herself smile back. He seems nicer than his brother, and Harry said
Alphonse examined him he’d been perfectly fine, but when Elric told Alphonse to grab Fred
and George he hadn’t hesitated for a second. And he didn’t actually accept Ginny’s apology.
Well. Not that she apologized to him.
“It won’t happen again,” Ginny says virtuously, and Alphonse circumvents an answer by
smiling and nodding and lifting his first forkful to his mouth. Hermione sees his expression
freeze into polite horror as he takes the bite, but Mustang and Madam Bones are looking at
each other again and there is something being communicated there and Hermione has to see.
Madam Bones hasn’t taken her eyes off Mustang, a deeply considering but now increasingly
amused look on her severe face. “You have children, Mustang?”
Mustang’s smile flickers into a grimace of horror as Chaos snorts and Hughes chokes on his
sip of water. “No children,” Mustang says, tone delicate with revulsion as Hughes gets
carefully pounded on the back by the short-haired blonde with the metal hand. “Though I’m
reliably informed that junior officers occupy much the same existential role.”
“Yes, that would do it,” Madam Bones says, amusement growing as Hughes keeps coughing.
“You known Livvie long?”
“A while now. I served with her brother,” Mustang says, ignoring the others. “Have you met
Alex?”
“That the big one who cries a lot? Only pictures,” Madam Bones says. “Livvie’s invited us to
visit, but with my work and Susie in school there just hasn’t been the time.”
“Your child?” Hughes guesses hoarsely, thumping his chest a bit as Elric slings one last
hapless piece of broccoli in his mouth and abandons his plate to grab for his water glass like
he hasn’t imbibed fluids in days. Alphonse uses the moment to quietly switch his full plate
with his brother’s empty one.
“My niece,” Madam Bones says, some amusement fading. “Her parents were murdered by
Death Eaters in the first war.” She nods at Hermione and Ron, then. “She’s in your year.”
Susan Bones, right. Hufflepuff, quiet, decent marks, never asked to copy Hermione’s
homework. “We had Herbology together last year,” she hazards, unsure of whether the look
on Madam Bones’ face is reproving or not. Madam Bones had been looking at Mustang like
she’d heard his threats loud and clear, but now it seems like she’s mostly just teasing him. It
had seemed like everyone felt that moment of tension, Shacklebolt and Bill and even Tonks,
but Mustang had sounded perfectly nice and Hermione still can’t even pinpoint why exactly it
had felt like staring down a tiger. Is she just - imagining things?
No. That look he gave her, talking about accidents - she knew, clear as if he’d spoken, that
he’d start with the Map and the Cloak and he certainly wouldn’t stop there.
“She says you gave quite the show at the Tournament,” Madam Bones says, this time to
Harry. “You would’ve won, I hear, if things hadn’t ended like they did. Bloody good show for
a boy your age.”
Harry’s face has shut down entirely. “Cedric would’ve won,” he says flatly. “If Crouch hadn’t
cleared my way and Voldemort hadn’t killed him.”
Madam Bones grimaces, but before she can respond to that Elric surfaces from his water with
a final whole-body gulp like a swallowing crocodile. He thunks his cup down, swipes his
hand over his mouth and immediately fixes his yellow stare on Harry. “Where’s your report.”
“What?” Harry says.
“On how you got kidnapped,” Elric says impatiently. “Where is it. I gave you paper and
everything.”
“Haven’t done it yet,” Harry says tartly. “Been a bit busy getting drawn on by your brother.”
“You’re welcome,” Elric says, turning to Alphonse. “So is his brain gonna explode or what?”
“There haven’t been any signs of atypical neuroelectric activity,” Alphonse says calmly. “His
cardiac and pulmonary function seems unimpaired. At the moment I don’t foresee us having
to deal with any physical complications.”
“That’s good,” Ginny says, as Hermione wonders what exactly they were looking for -
Harry’s brain might be affected by Voldemort’s scar, but his lungs? His heart?
“Yeah, yay, whatever,” Elric says, turning back to narrow his eyes at Harry. “You owe us
names. I told you, you want back at those assholes, give us something to work with.” He
switches his gaze to Madam Bones without pause. “Did you debrief him? Somebody did,
right? Can we have that file at least?”
“The Ministry’s official stance is that Voldemort has not returned,” Madam Bones says, wry
and bitter. “As such, there is no report. The case was determined to be the work of lone
madman and former Death Eater Bartemius Crouch, who was executed by the Minister’s
mandate before he could be questioned by Aurors. Potter was put down as overstressed and
hallucinating from Acromantula venom.”
Mustang and Hughes exchange unreadable glances. “Minister’s mandate,” Hughes repeats.
“It doesn’t look good for Fudge that a Death Eater got out of Azkaban, let alone taught at
Hogwarts for an entire year,” Madam Bones says, lip curling. “Who knows what else Crouch
might reveal in a trial? Fudge is getting hell for ordering the dementor’s Kiss now, of course,
but whatever the hell else he had to tell, we’ll never know.”
“Mm,” Hughes says, sat back in his chair with his hand over his mouth now, eyes sharp
behind his glasses. “Sounds like he was very invested in making sure this… Crouch...
couldn’t talk. And he has the authority to give kill orders to dementors?”
Madam Bones sits back as well, meeting Hughes’ gaze. “Fudge doesn’t gain anything from
Potter’s death,” she says bluntly, even as Hermione realizes what, exactly, Hughes is
implying. “He’s the Boy Who Lived. Even if Potter here is making a fuss for him about
Voldemort being back, most people just think he’s had a nervous breakdown from competing
too young in the Tournament and tsk tsk at Dumbledore for not taking better care. Which
makes Fudge look better in comparison.” Harry glares at her, but she doesn’t glance around
to notice. “Frankly, gentlemen - Fudge is an idiot. There isn’t any obvious advantage to
having the Boy Who Lived be murdered by dementors, and he’s not bright enough to think of
any non-obvious ones.”
Hermione’s hand feels like it’s going to have permanent dents from the shape of her fork. It
was upsetting enough to have Elric talk about Harry like he’s a chess piece and not a person,
but it somehow hits harder to hear Bones speak the same way. “He doesn’t have to be a
master of thinking, he just has to be compromised,” Hughes says reasonably, though his eyes
are grim. “Why give the kill order yourself if you can blackmail someone into giving it for
you? And fools are easy to blackmail.”
Shacklebolt and Vance look just as grim, Hermione sees, and Lupin and Bill too. Bones’
mouth twists, but before she can reply the kitchen door swings open again and releases Mrs.
Weasley, frizzy around the hair and frazzled around the eyes as she guides in a whole new
stream of dishes with her wand. “Sorry, sorry, everyone - had a bit of trouble with that oven
again, but not to fear, there’ll be enough for everyone -”
Mr. Weasley comes in behind her, bearing even more food, and as Bill stands to help his
mother and Shacklebolt starts moving dishes out of the way the room dissolves into subdued
chatter. The Amestrisans exchange some discreet glances but keep eating, and Mrs. Weasley
pointedly asks Fred and George about their NEWTs before she’s even sat down, and
Hermione knows the real conversation is over. For now.
She exchanges a glance of her own, with Harry - troubled, angry - and Ron. Elric had been
right, telling them about extortion and negotiating and blackmail. They need leverage.
Hermione needs to make it so nobody can threaten to take away Harry’s Map and Cloak, to
start with, and she needs to have - something that will make the Amestrisans have no choice
but to tell her what she needs to know. And Hermione is on a deadline. The Amestrisans
won’t be going to Hogwarts. She needs to find out about - too much, there’s so much to do -
but she can start with Elric’s new armguards. These ones look like they’re made of some kind
of crystal, almost, and the stunners and hexes had just reflected right off them. Harry and Ron
should be able to learn Protego Maximus, but even if they can’t, even if they get disarmed -
having something in reserve that can deflect spells may save their lives.
And Snape had been put out of commission when he lost his wand. If alchemy can let Elric
do wandless magic - and if anyone can learn alchemy - Hermione has some work to do.
Chapter End Notes
hermione, 10 years later: so yeah that’s how I dropped out of high school, joined the
SAS, founded the House Elf Liberation Front and established the Global Democratic
Republic of Earth via me holding the G20 summit hostage with my fleet of house elf
fighter pilots and magically augmented F-52 Raptor jets
reporter: … so what DID happen to voldemort?
hermione: who? Oh, him! [laughs, gestures with lightsaber] sorry, it’s, you know, hard to
remember details from childhood adventures sometimes when you’ve got so many other
things to do
Chapter 57
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“So,” Havoc says resignedly as they close the door on their alchemically conjoined bedroom
collective; Mustang and Bones had some kind of brief dickjousting conversation held via eye
contact, which culminated in both of them agreeing how cool and great it would be if they all
retired for the night. “How screwed are we?”
Mustang sighs. “Reports first. Get the observations down, shower. Then we talk.”
They all settle around the room, Ed choosing the floor at the foot of his and Al’s claimed bed
to write on a hard surface. He might care more about whatever silent political messages were
going back and forth with Mustang and Bones, but he’s a little preoccupied thinking about
how magic shielding disrupts alchemy. Some kinds of shielding, anyway. He writes out his
theories for that first, trying to describe how that might even work, mathwise; given the
number of variables present he has to assign an entirely new one for magic/qi, which he
shortcuts by scribbling an angry face into the equations and designating it his magic
placeholder. If it felt like the shielding was corrupting the information aspect of the array, not
power, maybe it was? Okay, well, time to un-collapse everything and isolate each executable
component and see if there’s a way to test each individually.
Probably not, but hey. Ninety percent of science is figuring out what doesn’t work.
He pauses to uncramp his fingers and switch writing hands when he finishes fighting the
math and moves onto observations. It’s kind of weird to bunk down with everybody all
together. Ed’s usually in some shitty hotel room when out on assignment or staying with
whoever he knows in town, and when he was camping out with Greedling and Darius and
Heinkel it was mostly, well, camping, because they were all AWOL wanted enemies of the
state. This here is a mildly surreal juxtaposition of real beds, campfire close quarters and
seeing Havoc’s boxers in what’s technically a workplace setting.
They’re taking turns using the showers and writing reports, and through the miracle of
shorthand and assuring himself he’d be able to understand or at least reverse engineer what
he meant tomorrow morning Ed manages to finish his notes by the time Havoc exits the
bathroom and frees up a shower stall. Ed finishes scrawling SHIT WIZARD GOV FUCKED,
RECOMMEND FIRE + START OVER, grabs his pack and hustles. He can finally fucking
shave his stupid face, even if he probably can’t use the big bathroom mirror since they’re all
barracks-rooming it and he doesn’t want to crowd the counter any more than necessary.
The shower is fantastically hot. Ed almost nods off standing up with suds still sliding down
his legs, and only the knowledge that the pale blur in the next stall over is Hughes motivates
him enough to finish up and get out before the guy starts singing or something. And then
sleep. Fuck, that sounds good right now. Fuck shaving, he’ll do that tomorrow. The second he
gets out he’s taking a running leap into bed and transmuting himself into a mattress.
The door opens as Ed’s rinsing off, and he can tell it’s Al; Ed looks down, wiggles his metal
toes and decides he might as well oil up in here where the tile is all easily cleanable. “Al?
Can you get my oil can?”
“Uh huh.” Al rummages through Ed’s pack and then passes the oil up over the partition.
“Where do you keep your ration bars?”
The vague and unimportant recollection of his dinner plate pleasantly surprising him by
turning out to have more food on it than he thought springs into sudden vicious clarity. “You
didn’t eat?” Ed demands, throwing the stall door open and swinging his head out. “Why
not?”
“Oh my god, can you not be naked at me?” Al complains, pushing him back in. “Just tell me
where your stupid snacks are!”
“Why didn’t you eat? What’s wrong?” Ed has to grab onto the edges of the stall to keep from
slipping onto his ass, talking garbled by Al’s hand on his face. “Are you sick? Was there
something wrong with the food?”
“I didn’t like the… whatever it was, it’s fine, I have nuts and jerky, it’s fine. Where are your
snacks?”
“You’re hungry,” Ed observes as Al shoves him back fully into the stall and starts
determinedly closing the door on his fingers, “look at you, you’re hungry cranky, you’re
hranky, why didn’t you eat -”
“Crungry,” Al corrects.
“- and I think they’re gone, I ate them all. Go steal Havoc’s.”
“Take mine,” Hughes offers, voice echoing and shape a ghostly blur in the other stall, which
makes both Ed and Al scream a little. Hughes laughs, because he’s a demon. “Seriously, go
ahead - Havoc actually likes those things, and I’ll just steal some of Roy’s if I need them. Go
on.”
“Thanks,” Al says sincerely, and uses the moment to shut Ed back in the shower entirely. “I
appreciate it.”
“Dick,” Ed informs him, picking up the oil can again and propping his metal foot on the taps
to start working it over.
“I can’t hear you,” Al says primly, gathering up his things and leaving Ed’s pack half-open as
he swans into the third shower stall. “Also, I’m using your toothpaste.”
Ed chooses to be the bigger person and let Al have the last word, because he’s the big brother
and also if he doesn’t focus here the oil dripping out of his ankle joint is gonna make him slip
and crack his head and die. Al will drag his corpse back to Winry and make him an automail
brain and reanimate him just to laugh in his face about how he died in a wizard shower, and
it’s just not gonna be a good headstone, is all. If you gotta go through the misery of chipping
out a death date, the very least you should get is a cool consolation epitaph. ‘God Finally Had
Enough’, or something.
He should put that in his will. He still has no clue why it legally can’t be two sentences: Al
gets everything, put something cool on my tomb. Sign, date, boom. What else is there to say,
really?
And that’s his sign to get the fuck out of the brain-hotbox that is the shower, because if he’s
starting to get all deep and morbid who knows where he’ll end up.
Ed escapes with Hughes just starting to hum, leaving the bathroom damp and mildly oily and
feeling a lot more like a person. It also nearly takes him right into Havoc, still shirtless, and
by the sound of it regaling Jones and Arget with one of his stories.
“- so then I get impaled, and then the chief gets impaled, and then we’re both on the ground
bleeding out. I’m just kind of lying there trying to stay conscious, but I’m thinking, well,
that’s it, you know? She got us right through the guts, and I can’t even feel my legs. Then the
chief says, I got an idea. I think I got something that can fix this. And I say, is it fire? Because
I don’t want to know if it’s fire. Please don’t tell me it’s fire.”
Here Havoc pauses. “Can you guess what it was?”
“Fire?” Arget ventures, hypnotized.
“It was fire. So then I’m screaming, and he’s screaming, and there was not a lot of dignity in
that room at that moment, I can tell you, but it did cauterize the wounds. Stopped the
bleeding long enough for us to get to the hospital, though we got yelled at for like two hours
each by doctors complaining about burns being huge infection risks. So yeah. That’s how I
got this scar. And why it’s so fucked up looking.”
That’s not terrible, as Havoc stories go; it’s got the facts, more or less, and isn’t flattering to
anyone involved whatsoever, but is still pretty entertaining and more importantly isn’t about
breasts.
Havoc heaves a sigh. “Shame about her being a homunculus, though. She had an amazing
pair of tits.”
Never mind.
“Impaled, though,” Jones says, looking slightly queasy. “Like… right through?”
“Yep. Came out my back here,” Havoc says, turning slightly and gesturing. “Only good thing
about spine injuries, lemme tell you - if it gets ya real good, you don’t feel anything from the
break on down. Still hurts like a fuck of a bitch everywhere else, but, y’know. Could be
worse.”
“Is that three of us that’ve gotten impaled now?” Ed says. “Shit. One more and we can start a
bowling team.”
“What, you too?” Havoc says, turning. “When?”
“Briggs,” Ed says, then rucks his shirt up, figuring it can’t hurt. “Did I seriously never tell
you? Fuckin’ Kimblee dropped a mining tower on me. No pyromaniac first aid, though,
thank fuck.”
“Huh,” Havoc says, inspecting the scar with his hands on his hips. “That looks… nasty.
What’d you get stuck with?”
“Some kinda pipe,” Ed says, turning a bit to show Havoc the entry wound on his back.
“Came in through here - thank fuck I was already on the ground, so it didn’t drag through me
too far.”
“Hell,” Havoc says, wincingly appreciative. “How’d you get loose? Even pulling it out - shit,
that must’ve bled like a bitch.”
Right. That’s why he doesn’t tell this story. “Some healing alchemy,” Ed says, which is
technically true and also thank fuck Al isn’t in the room right now. “Detached the pipe,
sealed the hole up long enough to get actual help. Darius and Heinkel were there, they got me
to a doctor.”
“Those the two big guys with the…?” Havoc gestures vaguely around his face.
“Lion and gorilla chimerism? Yeah,” Ed says dryly. “They were assigned to Kimblee, but
since he blew them up along with me and I got them out of the rubble, they decided to hang
with a different alchemist.”
“Wow,” Jones says, only a little faintly.
“Everything they say about General Mustang’s people is true,” Arget mumbles.
“What are they saying these days?” Mustang says from where he’s passing right behind her,
which makes Arget turn a very alarming color and look like she’s about to throw up her soul.
“General Mustang sir!”
“At ease, Corporal,” Mustang says. “Saluting a man in his pajamas does nothing for either of
our diginities.”
“You start half the rumors about yourself, bastard,” Ed says before Mustang can start playing
with his food. “Don’t even pretend like you don’t know what people are saying.”
“It’s always useful to get an outside perspective,” Mustang says, pretty loftily for a guy in a
AMESTRIS STATE MILITARY COLLEGE NATIONAL CHESS CHAMPIONSHIPS 1904
sweatshirt. “I don’t presume to know everything at all times.”
Ed rolls his eyes. “You can tell him,” he tells Arget. “He’s not gonna be mad if they’re sleazy.
Pretty sure the sleazier they are the happier he gets.”
“She didn’t say General Mustang, she said General Mustang’s people,” Mustang points out.
“Stop talking in third person, it’s creepy,” Ed returns.
“It’s mostly gossip on which unlucky blonde you winked at in the past week,” Hughes says,
exiting the bathroom with his towel wound around his head and his glasses still slightly
foggy. “Who’s the work wife that actually runs your department, and so on.”
“That one is hardly new,” Mustang says with raised eyebrows, glancing at Hawkeye.
“Oh, no, chief,” Havoc says, a deeply satisfied grin starting to spread. “Don’t you worry.
Nobody thinks Colonel Hawkeye is your work wife.”
Mustang pauses and turns fully to Havoc, who grins the grin of a man who has finally gotten
fulcrum, target and leverage all in the same place together. “Hawkeye’s not the one who
brings you coffee, or homemade lunches, or drycleaned uniforms,” he continues mercilessly.
“She also doesn’t pass notes with you, or call you incessantly. You know who does do that,
though?”
Mustang swivels in horror back to where Hughes is beaming at him in evil delight. “No,” he
says with something like despair.
“Yes,” Hughes says inexorably. “Oh yes.”
“Absolutely not -”
“Don’t you accept our professional matrimony, Roy? Aren’t I a good wife to you?”
“You’re a terrible wife,” Mustang says. “All you do is show me photos of other women and
nag, nag, nag -”
Ed, though, is a little bit stuck on the fact that there is somebody for whom he fetches coffee,
willingly, and has brought lunch to, and has picked up a clean uniform for. As if dragged, he
slowly turns to Hawkeye. “But then… that means…”
Hawkeye nods at him soberly. “I’m afraid so.”
Ed feels his mouth drop open and his eyes slowly round. “Oh fuck yeah,” he whispers.
Mustang has stopped bickering with Hughes and caught on to their conversation. “No,” he
says, more intently.
“Yes,” Hawkeye says dispassionately. “Edward is my work wife.”
“Oh my,” Hughes says, pausing. “He is, isn’t he?”
“No he’s not,” Mustang insists, like repetition will make it true.
“I walk Black Hayate sometimes. She picked up extra automail oil for me just last week,” Ed
says, trying not to sound too much like he’s bragging and probably failing. “I’m totally her
work wife.”
Jones coughs slightly, drawing attention away from Mustang’s impending dramatics. “Well…
to believe the rumors, one would say you’re all considered the General’s… work wives.”
Hughes cackles. “Ah yes. ‘Mustang’s evil harem’, wasn’t it?”
Havoc sighs. “Mustang’s stable of blondes,” he supplies, which makes Hughes hoot with
laughter and has Ed grinning too until he remembers he’s blond.
“That better not include me,” he says, then turns with some desperation of his own to
Hawkeye, only mostly joking. “Sir, tell me we’re monogamous.”
Hawkeye sighs like they’re all too stupid to live. “If our fraternization is so obvious that there
is contention over which humorous name is more apt for our ‘clique’, General, I suggest you
take steps to obfuscate.”
“My dearest Colonel, it is a little bit moot to pretend you aren’t of a faction once you have
executed a coup,” Mustang says, all but sniffing like an offended maid - which answers the
question of how deeply Jones and Arget have been sucked into this mess, Ed realizes. The
poor bastards. They’re never getting out again.
“And that right there, that’s why people think you’ve got a harem,” Hughes says, pointing.
“Dearest this, sweetest that. Mop the sugar from your mouth, it’s going everywhere.”
“In that case I can’t imagine why anyone thinks I harbor any affection for you.”
“Because you haven’t roasted us even a little,” Hughes says blithely.
“He did roast Havoc,” Ed points out, Havoc nodding indignantly.
“Medicinally!” Hughes protests. “He hasn’t tried murdering us at all.”
“And in that I have clearly been ruinously remiss,” Mustang says darkly.
“But kitten, you’d miss me so much! Besides, if anything it’s more of a cartel,” Hughes adds,
flipping from glee to thoughtfulness in that heel-turn way he has. “Harem would have far
more frequent mandatory VD testing.”
“Would you like more frequent VD testing? Because I can make that happen,” Mustang says
silkily.
Al, exiting the bathroom at that moment, pauses and looks around the room. “What’d I
miss?”
“Hawkeye took Ed as her bride,” Hughes informs him. “I believe you now owe her fifty
sheep and a mule.”
“Don’t be silly,” Al says, patting his towel against his wet hair because he refuses to
alchemize it dry and resuming his way to the bed. “Brother isn’t worth fifty sheep.”
“Hey!”
“And Colonel Hawkeye may be better off wedding the mule.”
“I don’t have a brother,” Ed informs the room of cackling hyenas, turning away from Al. “I
think I had one once but he died of terminal stupidity way long ago. Tragic.”
“Be grateful, boss,” Havoc says, grinning. “According to the talk in Central he’s the only one
of us not married to Mustang.”
“Oh, that’s a shame,” Al says, not looking up from putting away his toiletries. “I hear that
bride price is nothing to sneeze at.”
Hughes shakes his head, clicking his tongue and tapping thumb and forefinger together. “Two
packs of cigs and a gas station lighter,” he says regretfully. “Trust me, I’d know.”
“I’m divorcing you all,” Mustang announces. “Give me your reports. None of you are getting
alimony.”
“Oh, darling, don’t be like that,” Hughes croons as the rest of them snicker and start
organizing pages. “Not when you know we only married you for your money.”
Ed wanders over to hand off his notebook, open to the relevant pages, and grins when
Mustang’s eyelid twitches at the scribble. “Enjoy,” Ed tells him, because he hasn’t bothered
decoding shit for Mustang ever since he caught the bastard reading a brick-thick book whose
cover said Actuarial Adventures: The Role of Insurance Policy in the Agricultural Tax
Legislative Process but turned out to be Rienne’s fucking compendium on cryptography, the
collected essays and methodologies edition. And Mustang was pencilling notes in it, bookdesecrating deviant that he was, so Ed’s been acting for justice on behalf of all books since.
As far as he’s concerned, bad handwriting is excellent practice for code enthusiasts.
“Thank you,” Mustang says, taking the journal like it’s a week-old sandwich. “I’d like a
verbal report from you as well, Alphonse, when you’re ready.”
Al hms . “Observations on qi I would prefer to communicate in writing,” he says, meeting
Mustang’s eyes briefly; that means whatever the fuck he saw during the demo - or hell, when
those fucking twins took him - is something he really doesn’t want to take chances on the
wrong person overhearing. Like, say, literally any wizard. “For completeness’ sake, of
course.”
Mustang nods, eyes just the slightest bit narrowed like he’s on the exact same train of
thought. “And the boy?”
“There isn’t much that’s useful at the moment,” Al says, shaking out his towel to hang on the
headboard. “Hairy’s healthy. Barring new information, I don’t have any concerns about
executing whatever procedures might turn out to be necessary. I’ll write up the full medical
case, of course -”
“Whoa whoa, what’s this?” Havoc says, going over to Al and stopping him where he’s about
to pull on his sleep shirt. “Alphonse Elric, did you get a tattoo?”
“Hm? Oh, that’s our Teacher’s alchemy symbol,” Al says, glancing down at his chest. “She
told us if we wanted to wear it as adults we’d have to get it tattooed like she did.”
Havoc turns on Ed, delighted. “Really? ”
Ed grimaces and pulls down the neck of his shirt enough to show the edge of his own tattoo,
because if he doesn’t Havoc will tease him forever and Al will find a way to ‘accidentally’
dissolve his shirt or something. “Really.”
“You should have seen him,” Al says happily. “Teacher made us do each other’s and Ed was
hanging onto the chair like - well, you ever see a cat that doesn’t want to go in the cat
carrier?”
Ed groans and flops back onto the bed, scooting himself across the mattress with his foot
because Al likes to sleep on the right side. “Fuck needles, okay? Stuff going under your skin
is fucking gross.”
“Ah, that reminds me - I have a little gift for everyone, should they want it. A souvenir from
Xing,” Al says, bending down to his pack to produce a marker and gesturing for Ed to roll
over. “Given we’re eating a lot of unfamiliar foods and it was mentioned that the terrorists
prefer assassination… this is a blood filter array,” he explains, as Ed feels the cool touch of
the marker on his left triceps. “It’s an alkahestric circuit that monitors your bloodstream and
filters toxins, if it detects any.”
“Protection against poison,” Hughes’ fascinated voice says, now much closer to see what
Al’s doing. “I’ve never seen anything like that before.”
Ed snorts into the mattress. “Xing was deliberately designing its imperial succession process
to be a dogfight while we were still eating ass without a spoon over in Amestris. Fuckin’
‘course they’d have better, whatever, anti-sneak-murder shit than we do.”
“Oh yes. That’s how my family came over,” Hughes agrees. “One of Grandma’s husbands
got unlucky with a favored clan at the time and she decided better Amestris than beheaded,
hanged, poisoned, drowned or thrown off a bridge. And now here we are! Though Grangran
must not have had access to an alkahestrist. She’d have loved something like this.”
“Good to know paranoia runs in the family,” Ed mutters into the scratchy sheets.
“And the sense of humor!” Hughes agrees. “It requires an alkahestrist to activate, yes?”
“Yeah,” Al says, followed by the click of a cap as the marker lifts from Ed’s skin. “It needs to
be along a qi meridian, but once it’s linked it only needs to be renewed every two weeks or
so. Small pinch,” he says, and before Ed can react to that Al plants a hand on the back of his
head and stabs him.
“Al!”
“Sorry,” Al says unapologetically, controlling Ed’s jerk with the hand on his head. “I did
warn you.”
“Warn me? Did you just fucking stick me with your -”
“Shush,” Al says, not at all bothered about inflicting his horrible Xingese ‘medicinal’ needles
on his poor, helpless, trusting older brother. “It’s for your own good. See, now it’s linked - it
needs access to both bloodstream and qi system to work properly.”
“Would it filter anything?” Hughes says, sounding closer again as presumably he leans in to
look at Ed’s latest medical fuckin’ bodymod. “Or rather, is there anything it specifically
won’t work on?”
“S’not gonna work against what I’m gonna fuckin’ do to you,” Ed growls at Al, thumping
demonstratively at the bed with his metal foot. Al’s got him by the back of the skull in a way
that’s somehow making it much harder to lever up than it should be, because the little bastard
is way too good at pressure holds these days. “Let me up.”
“No,” Al says calmly, not budging his hand. “Relax. Ling’s probably got one of these
tattooed. You can match.”
“I don’t want matching tattoos with Ling!”
“Then you can wash it off in two weeks,” Al says, unperturbed. “Psychoactive substances
won’t be affected, and it won’t do anything to prevent, say, food poisoning, as that’s bacterial.
If you have a specific allergy, this won’t prevent anaphylactic shock. But things like cyanide,
arsenic, strychnine… most of the common killers, it’s specifically designed to catch.” He
pauses. “Also, while it’s active you can’t really get drunk.”
“Hm,” Mustang says, now also right behind Ed judging by the voice. “Walk me through the
formulae?”
“This, this, this and this are the anchor points that link into your bloodstream, and this is the
component formula that specifies base state - it’s always active in order to monitor your
blood, which is why it has to be renewed when the energy runs out,” Al says, moving Ed’s
arm a bit with his free hand because of course now Ed’s just a convenient medical dummy
teaching tool. “ This is the filtering circuit, which activates only in case of detection - the first
component pulls on your own qi to power that, and neutralizes any toxicity by binding any
poison to salts and fat molecules. It’s similar to arrays used to filter the blood of patients with
kidney problems - it works off homeostasis in blood composition and just generally removes
foreign agents broad-spectrum along with a couple of specifically targeted compounds. Like
strychnine, and so forth.”
“What does it do, in terms of physiological effects?” Mustang asks. “Would you notice when
it activates, or…?”
“Not necessarily. If the dose of… whatever you’ve ingested is large enough, you’ll probably
notice your body reacting and the array heating up. It filters out through your kidneys along
with everything else, so expelling the poison is more or less just a trip to the bathroom.
Anecdotally, you’ll probably get kind of sweaty. And nauseated.”
Ed finds his eyes sliding shut as Al keeps talking. He might’ve just been stabbed and
alkahestried by his traitor snake brother, but he’s horizontal on a soft surface and the past
thirty-six hours lasted eight billion years and he was doing alchemy for basically all of them.
“There may also be some dizziness or lightheadedness, and if you see the array activate it’s
generally a good idea to sit down and get some water and electrolytes in you, if you can. You
may want to look into getting this tattooed, General,” Al adds. “I’m told it’s the traditional
gift given to those who choose to go into politics.”
“And a sum to pay for a lawyer’s time so you can formally organize your will, so I hear,”
Mustang says dryly. “Thank you, Alphonse. I certainly won’t say no if you’d like to apply the
temporary version.”
“Of course,” Al says; Ed distantly registers him finally taking his hand off his head. “And
everyone else, whoever wants it. Pays to be safer than sorry.”
“Of course,” Mustang echoes, and then some other things, and Ed’s pretty sure he hears the
word strategy and dangerous only it’s hard to think over the sound of the bed eating all his
thoughts. Al’s here. Shit’s fine. Sleep drops him like a rock off a cliff.
Chapter End Notes
Havoc: attempted murder. secret underground labs. Homunculus. My GIRLFRIEND?
Impalement. Paralysis. Fire! Fire!
also i made up all the blood filter medical stuff wholesale, whats a protein lol
Chapter 58
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed wakes up disoriented, disgruntled and eating his own hair, which after serious
investigative cogitation he learns is because he went to sleep with it unbound, unbrushed and
wet. Preceding events filter in at pretty much the same speed. Rolling over gives him the
whole-body stiffness of having slept so deep he didn’t even twitch, which probably means no
nightmares, good, but also doesn’t ever seem to actually alleviate exhaustion and leaves him
feeling like a steamrolled sponge.
He zombies upright. The room’s empty; wait, no, that’s Arget at the little table in the corner
writing in some files. She looks up, sees him, goes red and mumbles. Ed grunts and staggers
off to take a piss.
The bathroom mirror shows him a horrifying specter of hair wronged beyond sufferance, but
he’s too distracted by his tongue feeling like it’s made of towel to do anything besides gulp
clumsily from the sink. Brushing teeth just makes the towel taste like toothpaste. Upon
leaving the bathroom he falls forward to try and wake himself up with pushups, and it works,
kinda, though mostly by his right arm reminding him it’s not metal and can’t be used to just
break his impact however anymore. It’s a good thing he redid the floors in here when he
shoved everything around, too, because otherwise bringing his face this close to decomposing
wizard parquet would probably give him a respiratory infection.
It also has Arget staring at him with a weirdly intense look on her face when he gets back up,
and it occurs that there should be other people around here somewhere. Ed spits some hair
out of his mouth. “Where’s’vrybody?”
“Uh. Downstairs? I’m - the General said nobody’s to go anywhere alone, so - ”
“‘Kay,” Ed agrees, heading for one of the doors. Arget scrambles up her papers and trots to
catch up.
Nobody’s in the halls, but as they hit the ground floor it’s obvious people are in the kitchen.
Ed stumbles in and sees Mustang has a steaming paper cup in front of him, which
conveniently decides his trajectory across the room.
One sip in, though, has him jerking the cup away from his face. “Fuck is this?”
“Coffee,” Mustang says. “Thank you, Corporal.”
“Yessir.”
Ed must have got the wrong cup. “Where’s yours?”
“That is mine.”
“Like fuck,” Ed says, searching the table. There’s a bunch more paper cups in the middle and
Hawkeye and Hughes both have one but everything is unmarked and theirs is definitely both
tea. “I haven’t had coffee in three fucking days, bastard, cough it up.”
Mustang sighs, takes another cup from the center and beckons for Ed to return his. Ed
considers not giving it - this weak catpiss dishwater is better than nothing and also, revenge -
but it looks like bastard might actually achieve something drinkable if left to his own devices,
so he hands it over. Then he looks around for a chair, but everything is on the other side of
the table.
He sits down on the floor instead, sticking out his metal leg. Alchemy crackles quietly
somewhere up over his head. The weird carved table leg is cold hardwood, at least, and a
decent place to rest his forehead. He doesn’t have a headache exactly but he feels dumb and
his eyes don’t want to be open, which is annoying as shit. He compromises by squinting.
A hand with a thick, mottled stab scar in the middle appears in front of his face, wrapped
around a paper cup that smells much more familiar. “Put your gloves back on, bastard,” Ed
mumbles, grabbing the cup with both hands and inhaling deep; going unarmed around here is
just stupid.
The other hand appears in front of him, pointedly waving in an ignition glove. Ed grunts and
gets chugging. The familiar spike of flavor rouses his tastebuds, collides with the residual
tang of toothpaste and slices down his throat; he can feel the burn hit his bloodstream and
start to do some good.
It’s still not quite right, though. Ed squints more and sniffs the empty cup. “This is still off.”
“No lemon juice.”
“Oh.” Ed blinks. “Why am I on the floor?”
“Reasons wholly your own, I suspect.”
Ed makes a face at the corner of table Mustang’s voice is coming from and levers himself up.
“Times’it?”
“Half to seven.”
Ed squints at the watery sunlight coming through the kitchen window. It feels much later than
that, but then, when they’d crossed over the divide it had gone from noon to night in a blink,
so everybody’s internal clock is probably still set to Amestris time. Then he looks around.
“Where’s Al?”
“Out with Havoc and Sergeant Jones,” Mustang says. “He found his breakfast preferences did
not match the available options and decided to find a grocery.”
Ed eyeballs Mustang mistrustfully. Al’s spent the past year wandering up and down every
backwater Xing could offer and can handle himself, and Havoc’s good backup, but fuckin’
wizard world has already proven itself to be the kind of fuckparty nobody should
underestimate. Though the city out there is just normal people, not wizard cultists. “He got
local money?”
“Yes. They’ll be back within the hour.”
“They aren’t going far,” Hawkeye says. “Five block radius.” She’s out of uniform - black
turtleneck, light grey jacket. Still work clothes. Mustang too, Ed realizes: the white
buttondown is the same as ever but the pants are black and aren’t tucked into his uniform
boots. Hughes, of course, looks like he always does in civvies, namely like he owns a
gambling den fronting as the kind of jewelry store with big WE BUY GOLD!! signs and
cartoons of crudely drawn diamonds in the windows.
“You guys went out too,” Ed realizes, looking at the collection of paper cups and seeing
there’s some little paper bags there too, amongst Hughes’ files and Mustang with Ed’s
notebook and their makeshift sheaf of reports. “Food?”
Hawkeye’s nose wrinkles very slightly, though she reaches over and hands one of the bags to
Ed anyway. “The bakery we found only had desserts.”
Ed shakes the bag into his palm, a lumpy bready brown thing falling out; he doesn’t mind
sweets for breakfast, even if it’s not really anyone’s first choice, and his nose reports sugar
and apples which are both unobjectionable if definitely not enough to start a day on.
There is way more sugar than apples in this. “Mind the aftertaste,” Hughes says, deliberately
after Ed’s already taken a bite. Ed pulls a face but finishes it, and takes a second one too,
though Hughes wasn’t kidding about the aftertaste: gluey, chemical, weirdly metallic. “Is this
all they had?”
“Nothing else was open nearby,” Hawkeye says. “Alphonse volunteered to stock us up on a
few essentials, as we don’t know how long we’ll be dependent on civilian accommodation.”
“He really wasn’t a fan of that dinner,” Hughes observes.
Ed grimaces. After six years of not tasting, smelling or experiencing hunger, Al can get
downright picky about food. Which he has a right to be! But Ed still can’t always identify
what’s on the no-go list at any given time, and he hadn’t thought the wizard food they’ve had
so far had been all that bad. He’ll have to pay closer attention, because for some fucking
reason trying to talk to Al about this stuff just gets him more it’s fines and the occasional hand
pushing him off via his face.
Winry-voice in his head likes to say a lot of things about how he needs to chill out and stop
smothering Al and that every aspect of Al’s health and life and death aren’t Ed’s
responsibility, but Ed’s generally much louder Ed-voice says that they pretty empirically are,
actually. It wasn’t anybody else who vaporized Al’s body. Wasn’t anybody else who brought
him back, either.
And he should know what Al can’t eat. What the fuck kind of brother would he be if he
didn’t? “I got fed breakfast yesterday, I know they have meat and eggs and potatoes.” Ed
frowns around the kitchen. “Where the fuck are the wizards?”
Mustang tilts his head in the vague direction of the stairs. “Not up yet.”
“What, really?” Ed squints out the window to check daylight again - then the rest of what
Mustang said before clicks and he whirls, pointing a finger. “Lemon juice!”
Mustang sighs like a man about to plead guilty to manslaughter. “Yes.”
Mustang’s coffee, Ed learned from Kendra and Armstrong, was some kinda famous among
State Alchemists and whatever unlucky fucks got deployed with him close enough to suffer
his canteen preferences. Naturally Ed had to try it, and after the initial am-I-having-a-stroke
sip he reluctantly understood the hype. That shit could focus a corpse into doing calculus.
Recreating it for himself, though, turned out to be a challenge, because Mustang guards his
ingredients and the array to combine them more jealously than a toddler hoarding lollipops
and knowing the chemical composition of a food doesn’t tell you what’s actually in there.
“Lemon juice,” Ed hisses again, grimly triumphant. He’s gonna get the full list sooner or
later and then he’s gonna make himself coffee cake . And then probably astral project his
metabolism into a non-planar geometry, but that’s a problem for future Ed and honestly what
else are you supposed to do for your birthday when four separate people with varying levels
of authority have banned you from recreational drugs.
“Among other things,” Mustang says, because being a cryptic asshole gets him hard and he
lives to make Ed want to upend a cutlery drawer over his head. “The pantry here is
somewhat... lacking. And I suspect that what they call coffee here comes from a different
variety of plant.”
“Lemon juice,” Arget echoes faintly, from where she’s lurking in the corner with her papers
in her arms like a shield between her and the rest of their idiocy.
Hawkeye shakes her head. “Never try an alchemist’s coffee.”
“Not if you value your stomach lining,” Hughes agrees, stirring his own tea with a spoon.
“I’m just waiting for the day we actually catch him pouring battery acid in there.”
“Alex takes his with raw egg in it,” Mustang says mildly.
“Which I’m not sure is a result of his personality or a contributing factor to it,” Hughes says.
“Kind of a chicken or the egg situation there, honestly. Haha.”
“It’s probably been passed down the Armstrong family line for generations,” Ed mutters,
looking around. Now that he’s gotten his fix he wants an actual drink, and the weird apple
thing aftertaste really is getting stronger by the minute. “Got any extra tea?”
Mustang waves further into the kitchen, where a battered kettle is steaming on the stovetop.
“That’s not what y’all’re drinking,” Ed says, but he’s already heading over to it. “Is there
jam?”
A cupboard on his left swings open. Ed nearly hurls the kettle at it, because there’s nobody
there and it takes him a second to remember the fucking house likes to swing its doors at him.
“Fucking… fuck, fucker,” Ed mutters at it, which won’t win any eloquence awards or stop
Hughes from snickering but is the only thing he’s got right now that isn’t transmuting a
pickaxe and remodeling this kitchen again, this time the hard way. And the open cabinet turns
out to have a bunch of jars in it, which includes honey and three kinds of jam.
Under other circumstances he'd probably try all of them, but the metallic apple syrup stuff is
still pretty much coating his mouth so he sticks only a spoon of raspberry in his tea. He also
pauses, idea forming, and says to the kitchen, “Ham and cheese?”
Not a shiver. “What, was that all of it?” Ed says, not sure what the hell a yes or no would
even look like. “Did I eat it all yesterday? Is that it?”
“Should we be concerned that the house is feeding Ed?” Hughes says. “Or that he’s talking to
it?”
“It just showed me where the jam is,” Ed dismisses. “And I found the ham and cheese on my
own. Though it was in the cellar. Maybe there’s more down there, I didn’t really explore
much… hm.”
“Why don’t we wait for Al instead of eating more wizard cellar food of unknown origin,”
Hughes says in his Elysia, You’re Too Old To Put Things In Your Mouth voice, then
immediately winces. “Sorry. Out of office, just came out.”
Ed scowls but waves it off, because he knows Hughes never does the Dad voice on purpose,
if only because it makes Ed mean. He knows the guy can’t help it sometimes: Hughes has so
much dedicated parenting going on that it occasionally hits critical mass and sloshes over
anyone in reach. He always recognizes when he crosses the line, at least, and Mustang and
Hawkeye politely investigate their drinks and pretend nothing happened like the champions
of repression they are.
Ed has to feel kinda bad for Arget, though, who’s quietly taken the very corner chair furthest
from all of them and is trying very hard not to exist too loud lest their freakishness notice and
infect her. It’s a weird fucking op all around. While Ed’s pretty used to shacking up wherever
and foraging for breakfast in random shitholes in Fucknut, Nowhere, the rest of them are like
lizards adapted to the Central Command ecosystem. Mustang and Hughes and Hawkeye have
been their intense little triad of schemes for so long that Ed has literally seen all three of them
communicate by blinking before, and they definitely aren’t fazed by seeing each other’s
boxers in a workplace setting, but here they’re not just three soldiers, they’re General Sadism
and his two right hands and they’ve gotta at least fake military professionalism for Jones and
Arget. Who have to fake professionalism right back. It’s times like these that Ed’s pretty
damn glad he has no professionalism to speak of, genuine or otherwise.
Mustang sets his coffee down again, and Ed’s eye catching on the faint oilslick sheen on the
surface of his cup makes him thunk his tea down on the table and lean in, brain back on what
really matters. “Hey. Did you transmute fucking argon? Into neon? You total asshole?”
Mustang gives him a warning look and flicks his gaze towards the stairs again in a pretty
obvious don’t fucking say anything exploitable around the wizards ; Ed waves it away
impatiently and holds up two fists. “Diode. Gas.” He knocks them together sideways, glaring
at Mustang over his knuckles. “One array?”
Mustang shrugs, turning his cup idly in his ungloved hand like it’s totally beneath him to
even acknowledge that he’d worked out a circle that transmuted a noble gas - annoying as
shit, stable elements don’t want to change - and then probably somehow caught the discharge
as electrical potential, unbalanced it and directed it along the concentrated gas path, because
as hard as that’d be it’d still be easier than incorporating a second stage for independent
electrical current generation into the gas-shaping array. Which probably means that is what
he did, the brickhead overachieving fucking bastard. Seeing Hughes look questioningly
between him and Ed’s glare, Mustang rolls his eyes slightly and zigzags one finger through
the air in front of him, mimicking the writing gestures he used yesterday.
“What, that?” Hughes laughs, sitting back. “He came up with that for Elysia. Cheered her up
drawing flowers in the air when we were in the hospital. Made it so she could wave her hands
through it and it’d move, isn’t that something?”
Mustang’s got his face back in his cup now, drinking deep and refusing to look at anyone.
Hughes leers affectionately at him from across the table. “Finally got some good out of you
freaks. Knew we’d find a use for alchemists in the end.”
Okay, Ed can see that one, because if he had to sit vigil in a hospital for Al or Winry in a
coma - week after week, nothing he could do - he would also be coping via codging together
entirely incompatible array sets into horrible and largely pointless frankencircles. “It’s sure
something,” Ed grumbles, vaguely wanting to steal Mustang’s coffee again. If he wants more
he can just go ahead and make some again, with his dumb secret array and his dumb secret
ingredients. “It’s a three layer cake of bullshit and he’s feeding it to us all on a bullshit plate
with a bullshit spoon.”
“Eat up,” Mustang says blandly, because he’s an asshole.
There’s the sound of the front door opening, and then Al’s voice is in the hall, getting closer.
“- with some peaches, basil, vinegar… though I don’t know about the available spices here.
Oh, and yogurt, which’ll make brother throw a fit. So I suppose we’ll have to make do. Hey
everyone!”
Al enters the kitchen carrying a bunch of stretchy-looking white bags and beams at them,
Jones similarly laden down behind him. Havoc is at the rear, and if that’s not an entire
wrapped sheep carcass slung over his shoulders Ed’ll eat his steel kneecap. “Look what we
found!” Al says happily, setting the crinkly white sacks down on the kitchen counter as Ed
and Hawkeye automatically get up to help him. “They have all sorts of food available here.”
“Is that an entire dead animal,” Mustang says, like being presented with fresh mutton is a
deep misfortune instead of a fucking miracle.
“Yep,” Havoc says, like he knows his CO’s an inscrutable freak. “Found a butcher’s on our
way to the grocery. I’d say we got a good price but who knows, with their money.”
Mustang does not look impressed by this conjunction of divine blessing and exemplary urban
foraging skills. “Any particular reason why you got… this... instead of, say, pre-sliced
bacon?”
“We figured that these people are being so nice, hosting us and feeding us, it’s only polite we
return the favor,” Al says, virtuous as a schoolboy reciting the Amestrisan national
constitution: “Barbecue’s an easy way to feed a crowd, and we can make a firepit in the
backyard. Reckon we can do chopped vegetables and pilaf for the side,” he adds to Havoc.
“Don’t think we’ll have the time for any flatbread.”
Al’s inner gourmet is definitely out in full force here: his physical therapy got supplemented
pretty thoroughly by the months they spent in Dublith, where Teacher made them butcher
nearly every damn thing Mason brought in and indulged Al’s feverish culinary experiments
by making the two of them responsible for all mealtimes. Ed looks over what they’re taking
out of the sacks: rice, onions, tomatoes, what looks like a can of condensed milk, butter, salt...
“What, you taking over all their cooking from the wizard lady?”
Al pauses, smiles very deliberately and says, “There was no seasoning in that dish
whatsoever.”
“It wasn’t that bad,” Ed mutters, but not very loud. Al gets downright dictatorial when he’s
like this. Anyone who thinks Al isn’t as much of a bulldozer as Ed has never seen him with a
2AM craving for chili toffee sticks.
“No surprises outside?” Hughes asks Al as Havoc sets the carcass on one of the counters.
“Nope, all good. No translation problems, nobody really looked at us weird. Here’s the local
money - number symbols are the same as ours, isn’t that neat? And they’re in base ten too,
though the bills go five, ten, twenty, fifty.” Al spreads out a stack of multicolored bills on the
table, tapping each corresponding amount; they’re different sizes, too, in teal and pink and
orange, which is just weird. “It’s a cotton-paper mix, but luckily the ratio skews mostly paper
so we used some old newspaper and some thread from Havoc’s socks.”
Hawkeye nods gravely. “Your sacrifice is noted, Captain.”
Havoc nods back. “We all do our part, sir.”
Mustang doesn’t look as impressed by this ingenuity, though honestly when taking report his
face tends to just get stuck like that. “And they accepted Havoc’s sock money?”
“Oh yes, no problems.” Al pauses. “I feel a little bad counterfeiting currency, but, well, I
suppose here they aren’t counterfeits, being compositionally identical.”
“And you changed the serial numbers,” Havoc adds.
“Right, yes - the Captain caught that before we started using them,” Al says, nodding thanks
at Havoc.
“I don’t think we have to worry about destabilizing the local economy,” Mustang says,
meaning he doesn’t care. “Transport?”
“Well, we couldn’t read any signs, but we got to talking to the butcher and he said most
people get around by car and train,” Havoc says. “They also have parking garages that you
can just walk into. Dunno if engines work about the same here, but from what we saw
looking through some windows everything seems to have the right number of pedals and
things. So that’s nice. And if we get a quiet minute to pop a hood I can see about whether
they’ll start without keys.”
Mustang gestures acknowledgement. “Very well done, both of you. Can we get the animal
corpse out of the kitchen before our hosts come down and take issue with a dead pig in their
food preparation area?”
“It’s a sheep,” Ed, Al and Havoc say simultaneously.
Mustang sighs like some kind of vegetarian. Ed grins. “Give it here, there’s a cellar. Anything
else that needs to stay cold, bring it over.”
Al follows him down, opening the cellar door so he can maneuver the carcass through. “I
bought you garlic and toast,” he tells Ed. “Well, garlic and bread. But you can toast it. I
think.”
“What would they do to bread that wouldn’t let us toast it?” Ed says, hefting the carcass as he
looks around; none of the shelves are big enough for it, but he spots a convenient set of meat
hooks in the corner. They don’t look anything close to sterile, but the carcass is wrapped in a
way that’s got a handy thick loop binding the hind legs that lets him hang it without
puncturing the paper. “We better be able to toast it. I am not kidding when I say access to real
carbs will be the only thing keeping me from going batshit today.”
“I know,” Al says soothingly, because he does know. “Come on. We’ll have some nice toast,
and just think! No matter what happens today we’ll have barbecue for dinner.”
“I love you,” Ed tells him sincerely.
Al grins. “I know.”
The bread is thick dark rye - Al knows what Ed likes; Ed should know what Al doesn’t like -
and toasts fine, so nobody has to die and everybody can eat an actual human breakfast. Al
sticks a comb in Ed’s hand before he can start peeling garlic, but that works out okay because
everybody else claims the middle bread slices and leaves the ends, which is the best parts as
far as Ed’s concerned.
Day four in wizard world: okay, things could be worse.
“Barring any exciting new developments,” Mustang says when they’re all settled around the
table and Ed’s scrubbing garlic into his toast, “today we’re still gathering information. Havoc,
you and Colonel Hawkeye and I need to see the locations they keep promising us. Hughes -
Malfoy. You two,” he says to Ed and Al, picking up Ed’s notebook, opening it and handing it
back to him magic-disruption theorizing page first. “I don’t like this,” he declares. “Handle
it.”
“Shit, I don’t like it,” Ed says, taking the notebook, skimming through the fevered mishmash
of equations he’d spit up yesterday and then passing it to Al. “Original plan stands, though. If
there’s no problem, there’s no problem.”
“Timeline?” Mustang says.
“No fuckin’ clue. By end of today we’ll know if it’s possible, though.”
Mustang’s face says that’s good enough for now, so Ed turns to Al and his study of Ed’s
scribbles. “This is only gonna matter if we can’t execute on the cancellation array,” he says,
pulling his hair back over his shoulder as he leans in so it doesn’t cover the pages. “But just
in case it can interfere with what’s essentially an absorption field, I wanna know how it’ll -”
He cuts off, because Psycho’s just wandered into the kitchen, looking annoyingly awake and
weirdly pleased to see them. “Hey, good morning,” he tells them. Ed sees Hairy and
Smartypants lurking behind him in the doorway, looking much more familiarly wary. “Early
risers?”
Chapter End Notes
if jk rowling can have wizards shit their pants i get to have barbecue
Chapter 59
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s times like these that Mustang earns his keep, smiling at Psycho and taking on the social
interaction that nobody else wants to deal with. “Good morning,” he says. “We’ve taken over
the kitchen a bit. I hope you don’t mind.”
“It’s a big house, do whatever you like,” Psycho says immediately. “I don’t mind. Morning,
everyone.” Then he nods all friendly directly at Ed. “Elrics.”
Ed wonders what the hell happened overnight to give him the fucking personality transplant.
Al looks up, closes Ed’s notebook and sets it aside, smiling the Nice Elric smile at them. “Mr.
Black.”
“Call me serious,” Psycho says expansively. “Everyone else does.” He looks around at
Hawkeye closing her sandwich and Havoc and Hughes efficiently dividing the butter and gets
real interested all of a sudden. “You went outside?”
“Groceries,” Mustang says, gesturing slightly. “With this many of us, eating every meal out
of your pocket - we wanted to make sure we wouldn’t be straining your resources. Help
yourselves.”
“That’s,” Smartypants says, stops herself and starts again. “Isn’t going outside - dangerous?”
For you, sure, Ed doesn’t say, mostly because his mouth is full of tea. Like, okay, yeah, it was
a risk given lord windmill may or may not have seen all their faces thanks to Hairy Broadcast
Nonstop Power Hour, but to actually find them he’d have to be out in the streets of the city
picking them out of a crowd.
“We didn’t go far,” Al tells her, convincingly reassuring. “The stores are very well-stocked
here. Oh! And - brother, look what we found in the grocery!”
Al bends down and rummages in one of the few crinkly sacks left in the kitchen, extracting a
rectangular pink box practically as long as his forearm and excitedly passing it to Ed. “Look!
It’s Winry!”
The front of the box is clear, plasticky, and displays what’s got to be some kind of doll: it’s a
woman, with long stiff arms and legs, wearing a crudely stitched but recognizable mechanic’s
coverall. She’s also got pink sandals, a big white smile, big blue eyes and long straight
blonde hair.
“Holy fuck,” Ed says, staring. “It is Winry.”
“She’s even got a little wrench!” Al says, pointing. “I can’t wait to give this to her. We’re
going to win at souvenirs forever.”
“What the fuck,” Ed says blankly, unable to take his eyes off the doll. If there’d been a
headscarf he would’ve tipped over from weirded and incredulous to seriously creeped out.
“Like… that’s really Winry. What the fuck.”
“Whoa,” Hughes says as the rest of them crane to take a look. “What are the odds of that.”
“Is that a Barby?” Smartypants says, sounding almost as weirded out as Ed is.
“Who’s Winry?” Psycho asks, leaning around her to look.
Al glances up at them. “Our best friend,” he says. “What’s a Barby?”
“The doll,” Hairy says, giving them a dubious look. “That’s what she’s called. Or… the
brand. I guess.”
Hughes holds up a finger, digs out his wallet and pulls out the stack of photos he keeps in
there, pulling one unerringly from the rest. “That’s Miss Rockbell,” he says, putting it on the
table. “The resemblance is amazing, honestly.”
Ed didn’t know Hughes kept a picture of Winry in his wallet, but when he sees which one it is
he relaxes; Ed’s in this one as well, the two of them straddling his bike in the Hughes’
driveway, Elysia sitting on the handlebars and all of them grinning squintily in the summer
sun. “Oh, from when you were dating,” Al says to Ed, leaning over his shoulder to also get a
look. “That was a fun weekend.”
“Merlin,” Psycho says, looking from the photo to Ed. “You bagged that?”
Ed narrows his eyes. This better be the translation rock wigging itself again. “Bagged?” he
repeats. “That?”
“I mean. I’m just saying,” Psycho says in a backtracking kind of voice, seeming to recognize
Ed would love an excuse to bounce his forehead off the table a couple of times using his
prison haircut. “She seems like a very impressive young lady. Anyone would have to work
hard for her attention.”
“Not Ed,” Al says mildly. “He gets it mostly by accident.”
Ed snorts, settling a bit and putting the weird Winry-Barby box on the table. “And by getting
my limbs ripped off.”
“Well, you didn’t do that on purpose.”
“Yeah, but you can’t really call that one an accident, either.”
“It wasn’t getting them ripped off, it was what you did about it after,” Al says.
Which is skirting dangerously close to making Ed have a feeling. “Paninya,” he retorts, more
in self defense than anything.
“You and Paninya are way more alike than you think.”
“Oh believe me, I fucking know,” Ed mutters, because multiple very sweaty weekends in
Rush Valley had proved that. Paninya’s not usually down for dick, but she’s pretty much
always down for Winry, and if Winry happened to be a package deal then Paninya wasn’t
above buy one get Ed free and Win definitely wasn’t either. Ed didn’t know it was possible to
have waking sex nightmares until he had two automail freaks giggling naked above him.
“Gross,” Al tells him primly, because Ed made the mistake of telling Al after the first time
Win and Paninya had ambushed him. Ed sticks his tongue out at him.
“She... likes you because you got your limbs ripped off?” Psycho says perplexedly, reminding
Ed that there’s three wizards staring in on this like they’re a ticketed audience.
He can’t let himself be lured into a false sense of security by Al’s presence and the smell of
garlic toast. Ed rolls his eyes. “Yeah, she’s real into amputees, got a whole thing about it.”
Though it occurs that Psycho hadn’t been in the backyard yesterday when everybody had had
such a fuckin’ revelation about Ed’s automail. He sighs and bounces his left heel under the
table, the metal striking loudly against the kitchen tile. “I got a metal leg. She builds automail
- that’s the kinda prosthesis, it’s osseointegrated and connected with nerve relays.” He pushes
the photo back towards Hughes so he can put it away. “She’s my mechanic.”
“Wow,” Psycho says dutifully, clearly not caring very much about this extremely generous
explanation. His eyes track the photo as Hughes takes it back for his wallet, then catches Ed
deadeyeing him and hurriedly pastes a smile on. “The bike - that’s yours, is it?”
Ed watches him without softening his stare, because every other time he took issue with
some dumbfuck thing of Psycho’s the guy ramped up instead of deescalating. “What about
it?”
“Nothing. Nice bike, is all,” Psycho says, still weirdly conciliatory. “Makes me miss mine.
Hagrid still got it?”
This is to Hairy, who also looks like he doesn’t know how to answer this. “Er,” he says.
“Maybe. I haven’t seen it.”
“Shame. Think we could get it back from him?” Psycho says, a little wistful. “Haven’t flown
in ages. Perfect time of year for it too - look at that, we’ve been getting sun for weeks. Bike’s
as bad as broom if you’re caught in a thunderstorm a thousand feet in the air, and worse
chance of being struck by lightning.”
Ed stares. “Your bike flies?”
“No,” say Al, Mustang and Hughes simultaneously.
“Yeah,” Psycho says, looking pretty smug about it. “Charmed it myself. It’s not quite up to
broom speeds, not with what they’ve got now, but it’s got the same lift as a clean sweep and
frankly a more comfortable seat.”
Why a bike that flies? Wouldn’t a car make more sense, with a roof and doors and things?
Whatever, nothing wizards do make sense, there’s more important concerns. “The bike flies,”
Ed repeats steadily, switching his stare to Hawkeye. She didn’t say no.
“Anyway,” Al says a little too loudly, “eat up, brother, we have research to do -”
There’s a pop, and a folded newspaper plops down out of nowhere in front of Psycho, by all
appearances unaccompanied. “You can teleport objects!” Ed snaps on reflex, sitting bolt
upright as Smartypants practically snatches it away. Then he remembers Al is right here with
all of his qi-sensing, opens his mouth, remembers the wizards are also right here and closes
his mouth.
He ends up just staring mutely at Al with full crazy eyes, but Al’s not Al for nothing. “Think
fluid dynamics,” he tells Ed, sketching a curving shape with both hands in the air. “Toroidal
flow. It inverts in place, don’t ask me the mechanism, and produces wormholes.”
“Wormholes,” Ed repeats in a strangled whisper. “Wormholes?”
Al nods, just as grimly determined, and taps the cover of Ed’s notebook reassuringly. “We’re
going to get to the bottom of this.”
Ed stuffs some toast in his mouth and nods too instead of yelling. Given how yesterday went
he’s probably gonna shout himself hoarse by lunchtime, so he might as well conserve his
yelling where he can. Wormholes, flying fucking bikes - and if Al thinks he can’t tell when
he’s being distracted he’s gonna learn real quick. He’s just lucky that the distractions here are
actual problems, and that Ed knows how to prioritize.
“Worm holes?” Psycho says bemusedly.
“Just some theories we’re working on,” Al says, polite-jargon voice dialed to the max. “We
like figuring out how to apply mathematical descriptors to various energy-interactive
phenomena. It’s kind of a hobby of ours. Mapping the energy’s topology, that sort of thing.”
“Ah,” Psycho says, looking appropriately bored by this. “That’s interesting.”
Smartypants, meanwhile, has the newspaper practically pressed to her nose. “Anything
good?” Hughes asks her, which again reminds Ed that they can’t fucking read shit for
themselves here. Can he teach himself their Inglish in a couple days? It can’t be that hard, can
it?
Luckily Hughes has apparently already managed to train the kids from yesterday, because
Smartypants starts talking as her eyes skim the page. “Mostly… who’s going to be replacing
dumbell door as chief Wizengamot. They still haven’t appointed a new mug Wump either.”
Her eyes flicker further down, and her expression darkens. “And they’re calling Hairy a liar
again.”
“Isn’t he supposed to be missing?” Hughes inquires, tone light in a way that probably means
he can’t wait to find out how the wizards have weaponized their ineptitude and blasted down
through the absolute rock bottom of his expectations this time.
“He is,” Smartypants says, flipping the bottom half of the paper towards everyone, showing a
fairly big picture of Hairy giving the camera a good glower. Occasionally it blinks. Ed
presumes the big bold headline under the magic photo says HAVE YOU SEEN THIS
TEEN!!!! or whatever. “But it just says there was an unauthorized use of underage magic at
his residence and that he hasn’t been able to be located by the authorities. It doesn’t even say
there were dementers,” she says acidly. “It just says to come forward if there’s any
information and then goes on to repeat the same trash about how, well, it’s only to be
expected, isn’t it.”
“This is front page news?” Ed says skeptically, then remembers. “Oh, right. He’s like famous
or whatever.”
“Yeah, famous as anything,” Hairy says tartly, glaring. “Can’t go five minutes without
someone asking to see my scar and the day my parents got murdered is a national holiday.”
“Yikes,” Ed say, not entirely without sympathy. “Good thing you’ve officially disappeared
then.”
“Oh yeah, I’m having the time of my life here,” Hairy says with impressive sarcasm. “Chased
by dementers, nobody wants to tell me what’s going on, and everyone believes I’m a lying
Nutter who’s making it all up for attention. Going missing will solve all these problems.”
Ed rolls his eyes. “Who cares what idiots believe? The important thing is you’re not dead
yet.”
“It’s not just idiots, ” Psycho says, still in his weird mediating tone. “The daily profit’s read
by almost every wizard ing family in Britain. It’s a bit of a problem when the kindest thing
they start calling you is delinquent.”
Ed tries not to roll his eyes again as he goes back to his tea. “The magic wizard news thinks
you’re a mad bad kid. Yeah, I can see how that’s a problem.”
It’s Smartypants’ turn to level a glare at Ed. “How would you like it if the news called you a
delusional liar?”
Ed, halfway through a sip of tea, snorts so much he actually chokes into his cup. He’s not the
only one. “What haven’t they called me,” he coughs, thumping his chest a bit to clear the
pipes. “Shit, you wanna talk press problems? Crazy liar is nothing. Crazy liar’s a love bite
when it comes to journalists, they’re going easy on you.”
“Going easy,” Psycho repeats with some of his bite back, though Hairy next to him looks
fully ready to throw his fork.
“Ah,” Al says, a little bit strained from holding in the screaming laughter. “Colonel Hughes,
how many children does brother have? According to the papers.”
“Oh, anywhere between eight and twelve,” Hughes says, clearing up his snickers just enough
to put his Very Serious Officer face on. “And as for brides left at the altar, grooms jilted,
secret marriages denied - where are we now, Ed? Twenty-six? Twenty-seven?”
“We got a special bin for his mail,” Havoc puts in, gesturing with his fork. “All the
alchemists do, but the boss’s is twice the size and had to be made of metal after some farmer
mailed him a four gallon keg of moonshine that cracked in transit and soaked everything in
nearly hundred proof real flammable booze.”
“The secretaries have a wall of fame,” Mustang says lazily, because the bastard knows it
makes Ed growl. All mail to State Alchemists goes through Security - their home addresses
are classified for a reason - but Ed’s the only one that Mustang’s given the mail guys free rein
to openly razz over. “I think so far the illustrated love letter that also claims to be from his
long lost cousin is currently the department favorite.”
“We have scorecards,” Hughes informs a horrified and vaguely disgusted Hairy as Ed scrubs
the garlic with increasing violence against his toast. “There are only so many times you can
review claims that the Fullmetal Alchemist stole someone’s car and slept with their spouse
before you start playing bingo.”
“The Fullmetal Alchemist is two meters tall, rides around in full plate armor and has an arm
that turns into a flamethrower,” Jones says very seriously.
“The Fullmetal Alchemist is secretly a woman,” Havoc says, grinning.
“The Fullmetal Alchemist is secretly three women,” Hughes corrects, “named Mina, Tina and
Serena, all taking turns wearing the red coat of power and the blond wig of justice to let them
be in several places at once, and he - sorry, she - once rode a bear into a bank vault during an
armed robbery -“
“Okay, I didn’t ride it,” Ed says exasperatedly, thunking his garlic down. “I was chasing it.
Some two-bit chimerist wannabe was keeping it in his backyard and turned it loose when I
came knocking, and the damn thing went skipping off right down the fuckin’ street and into
the open doors of - you know what, you can read the fuckin’ report yourselves. My point is,
people are gonna make shit up, okay? All the time. You can’t stop ‘em, you can’t out-yell ‘em
-”
“Believe me, he’s tried,” Al murmurs.
“- and reporters are like cockroaches, they’re unsquashable. You tell one to shut his mouth
about you, five more crawl outta the woodwork -”
Mustang’s staring at the ceiling. “Fullmetal. Stop threatening reporters.”
“I don’t anymore, I just said so, don’t you listen? It’s not worth it, they fuckin’ love that shit.
Alleman fucking Herdman from the Times fucking begged me to punch him last month, and I
mean literally, he said please and everything and looked way too excited about it -”
Mustang’s pinching his nose with his eyes shut now. “Did you?”
“No! Now stop interrupting, I’m trying to explain something here. You, you’re famous too
right? Fuckin’ serial killer and all?”
Psycho might’ve been all sour about it yesterday, but now he looks almost as into things as
Alleman fucking Herdman had been. “Mass murderer, but yeah,” he agrees, watching Ed like
he’s about to solve P=NP before his very eyes.
“And they’re blaming all sorts of other crimes on you, because nobody knows where you
are? You’re, whatever, under everyone’s bed?”
“Yeah?”
“See, that? That’s great,” Ed informs Hairy, pointing at Psycho with his toast. “That’s exactly
what you need to do. In fact he should be popping up himself in a couple places - don’t tell
me you can’t, you fucks have got teleporting. And you can drink the, whatever, magic juice
shit that makes you look like other people - fuck’s sake, this is easy for you. You get some
buddies, you show up all over the place with your own Mina, Tina and Serena, and you make
some fucking noise. Have people reporting fake sightings of you so much that whenever the
cops get a real report they just go ‘oh, not another one’ and toss it in the fucking bin. And for
you -” Ed jabs the toast at Hairy - “Same fuckin’ principle. You want it not to matter what
gets written about you in the paper? You do enough crazy shit, people won’t know what’s
true. If they think the news just spits out propaganda and whackadoo alien abduction bullshit,
then when they do call you a crazy liar, people just won’t care. Or they’ll think the exact
opposite is true.”
Psycho is staring at Ed with his mouth slightly open and a look disturbing similar to the ones
Arget gets on his face. “You’re saying I should go outside more,” he says hazily. “And be
seen. On purpose.”
“Duh. If people are already reporting fake sightings of you, you might as well play into it if
you’re not just gonna go completely off the grid.” Ed sits back, done waving his toast. “Fuck
up their intel, tie up their resources. If they can’t trust the reports they’re getting, they’re not
gonna take the situation seriously.”
“Basic information theory,” Hughes agrees, leaned in attentively with his hands clasped on
the table in front of him. “If you can’t hide the signal, bury it in noise.”
Smartypants is looking between Ed and Hughes like she can’t decide whether to take notes or
shake them like a couple of coconut trees until more information falls out. “How do you
make a newspaper report the truth?” she says. “Not just pressure one journalist.”
Hughes raises his eyebrows, apparently willing to indulge her. “Control the newspaper.”
“The ministry runs the daily profit,” Psycho says, also glancing at Smartypants in a vaguely
indulgent way. “Not sure even you can put a lid on all of that.”
Hughes shrugs. “You can definitely become head of the censorship office. That takes time, of
course.”
“We don’t want to censor things,” Hairy says sharply. “People should know the truth.”
“That, what, evil terrorist guy came back from the dead?” Ed says. “I don’t wanna be the one
to tell you this, but resurrection is a big fuckin’ pill to swallow even when you’re talking to
the guys who think reality is a simulation controlled by dolphins. You’re better off telling
people the terrorists have just reformed and started acting again under a new leader.”
“Then… why hasn’t the ministry done that,” Psycho says, brows meeting. “I mean - hell,
they could say I’m leading them, it’d work with their whole story. They wouldn’t have to
admit you know who returned.”
As earthshattering as it clearly is for Psycho to be groping his way through basic politics,
Smartypants and Hairy don’t look like they’re seeing the same light. “People should know
Voldemort has returned,” Smartypants says, a mulish tilt to her mouth. “He’s one of the most
powerful wizards Europe. If the Aurors are expecting only death eaters, they won’t be
prepared for him. People will die.”
Hughes sighs. “I doubt you can count on the newspaper for that.”
“Why not?” Hairy says, because if Smartypants is mulish he’s the whole pen of donkeys with
a fence-stuck ram on top.
“State propaganda lies, buddy,” Ed tells him, figuring he’d better use small words for this life
lesson. “That’s what it’s for. Fuck’s sake, you only have one newspaper - that’s a big fucking
sign telling you the government’s working damn hard to make sure y’all only know what
they want you to know. The state is not your friend, okay? That’s true even when it’s not as
glaringly compromised as yours obviously is -”
Mustang puts a hand on Ed’s elbow in the specific stop talking way, which makes Ed break
off to scowl at him. His rant on power always benefiting the few over the many isn’t
classified, it'd practically be self-help for these dingdings, but a second later Breakfast Lady
pushes into the kitchen and stops short, looking amazed to find all of them in here. “Oh!
Good morning, all - you’ve - made breakfast?”
“You worked so hard over dinner yesterday, we wanted to give you a break,” Mustang says
graciously, standing to guide her over to their impromptu sandwich assembly line. “I’m sure
it’s simpler than you’re used to, but please, help yourself. There’s tea, toast, coffee…”
“Oh, well - it’s no trouble, you’re our guests…”
Ed tunes out the butter-up and focuses on eating his own food, occasionally eyeballing the
elaborate tomato-cheese toastie Al is lovingly smearing mustard into. He shouldn’t be
lecturing kids on Intro to Real World anyway when he’s got braincells to burn on fucking -
wormholes.
Well - what the fuck did he expect, they already teleport here, and demonstratedly collapse
space like reality’s a fucking accordion. That it’s apparently a specialized technical feat that
requires equipment does not reassure Ed much, because - like, he’s known it was possible to
rip apart space since he was eleven. It’s not a question of possible. It’s just that the only other
thing he’s ever heard of that can do that is the fucking Gate, and gets triggered by fucking
around with souls and the accompanying massive energy payload. That wizards are accessing
this shit with a wish and a smile is probably never going to be something Ed can be blase
over. And he really doesn’t like the implications of that on mediums, like, say, time.
Wormholes. They can teleport objects, they can teleport themselves, they can fold and unfold
space, mass, matter. Do the atoms just all get crunched down small? Does it all go somewhere
else? The Gate stored Al’s body in… whatever fucking pocket dimension Truth lives in, and
that had to have been a physical place, given his body laid there and grew for years and Ed
fucking used his own as an Envy escape hatch. And a massive energy expenditure isn’t
always necessary to access the space, come to think of it: Ed’s body kept Al’s alive for years,
exchanging nutrients pretty much constantly, and when it came to Ed and Hawkeye - they
didn’t go there at all, as far as Ed can tell, but it was Al performing the transplant and Ed
can’t imagine how else it would’ve passed between them.
Ed’s recollection of the actual experience is unreliable: he doesn’t have a lot of times when
he’s so fritzed that waking memory craps out on him, but this is one of them. A lot of his first
automail surgery is like that. He doesn’t know if it means anything that this apparently fell
into the same psychosomatic category, but to be fair, he’d been pretty fucking stressed in both
circumstances. When the brain’s that unhappy it takes steps to remove itself.
This train of thought is starting to make Ed’s garlic toast taste sad, which is fucking
unacceptable, so he shakes himself and gets back to business. The point is, Ed and Al have
also, arguably, made wormholes. Not the same kind as the wizards are making, most likely,
but a localized interdimensional rip in reality is a localized interdimensional rip in reality.
He’s also suddenly real fucking grateful that the teleporting doesn’t feel anything like
dropping through the fucking Gate doors, ‘cause if it’s bad for him - well, he only got an arm
and half a leg atomized. It’s got to be worse for Al.
“Can’t believe none of my children are up, but since you’re here -” Breakfast Lady’s voice
filters back in. “Hairy, Hermione - we’ll be going to diagonally today. Dumbell door thinks it
would be a good idea, to get all your school supplies before the rush. And be seen about, of
course,” she adds, in the tones of one determined to make the best of something she doesn’t
agree with but can’t change. “So that there’s no suspicion that we’re harboring Hairy.”
“We haven’t gotten our book lists yet, though,” Smartypants objects, glancing at Hairy.
“Have they even announced who’s going to be the defense against the dark arts professor?”
“Dumbell door’s making a special exception and getting yours sent early - what they have
finalized, at least. We’ll pick up your things too, of course, dear,” Breakfast Lady says
apologetically to Hairy, like school shopping is some fantastic treat that she knows is not to
be missed. This whole conversation is making Ed glad anew to be a dropout.
Hairy, though, droops visibly as she talks, though it’s less of a wilt and more of an angry
hermit crab scrunch into himself. Psycho does not fail to notice. “Hey, it’ll be just you and
me,” he says, jostling the kid’s shoulder. “We can - dunno, maybe take buck beak around the
backyard for a bit.”
That reminds Ed that he needs to check on the fucking chimera. The thing’s the size of a
fucking horse, probably is part horse; that is not an indoor fucking animal. The magic fuckin’
backyard’s big enough for some kind of temporary pasturing situation, or at least it will be
when Ed’s done with it.
“Would you mind terribly if we joined you?” Hughes says to Breakfast Lady, smiling at her
in his own version of Mustang’s you like me moves. “We’d like to do some shopping
ourselves, and if you’ve got the room for us we’d love to tag along. You know the area best,
after all.”
Breakfast Lady looks a little bit flustered - Hughes going all you can trust me tends to have
that effect on moms - but not like she’s gonna say no. “I - all of you?”
“No no - just me, Sal and Marilee here,” Hughes assures her, gesturing between Jones and
Arget.
“And Jean,” Mustang adds, gesturing to Havoc with his own smile. “He’s very good at
carrying shopping bags of all kinds.”
“Well,” Breakfast Lady says, smiling a bit helplessly back. “I don’t see why not. We’ll have
to check with Tonks, of course, but - I don’t see why not. We’d be happy to have you.”
“Wonderful! We really appreciate it,” Hughes beams, as Smartypants looks torn between
hunger and alarm. “When do we go?”
Chapter End Notes
ed: anyway yeah i’m more famous than the beatles, have a sick ass bike and i keep
accidentally having threesomes. You should totally go outside and do crimes
sirius, dazedly: oh my god. you’re like if marilyn monroe were me. we wed in june
Chapter 60
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Hughes deciding he’s gonna go frolic off on a wizard shopping spree is definitely not a plan
he discussed with anyone else beforehand, judging by Mustang’s studiously blank expression
and Hawkeye’s deadeyed No. 53, Surely We Can Come Up With A Better Idea. That’s not
Ed’s problem, though, not with the whole magic question to solve. With a parting harangue at
Hairy (“Where the fuck’s the report, kid? Are you gonna make me ask you a fourth time?
Take this seriously, sheesh, it’s like you don’t want the Malbuy guy caught,”) Ed leaves the
kid spluttering as he and Al clean up their breakfast debris and go. “You take this seriously!”
follows him out of the kitchen, but Ed just waves without turning around and heads off to do
bad things with science.
“Hey, brother?” Al says from behind him as they reach the stairs.
“Mm?”
“Look left for a second?”
Al’s deceptively mild tone gets Ed for just the split second it needs to. In a flash Ed realizes
what’s about to happen, but even as he tries to leap it’s too late. Al’s cane is already between
his knees, tripping him, and Al himself moves like a fucking snake and has Ed in his least
favorite armlock in seconds.
“Al! Let go!”
“We go through this every time, brother,” Al says firmly, shifting his grip just enough to lift
Ed, struggling bitterly, right off the ground. “And you put up this fight every time, even
though you never win, and you admitted it’s good for you. You think I don’t notice when you
don’t turn your head on one side all morning?”
Ed didn’t even realize he wasn't turning his head on one side all morning, but before he can
yell about this Al gives a slight grunt and twist and does the thing to Ed’s back and shoulder
that makes it crackle like cooked bacon and abruptly unlocks every muscle and joint on his
right side.
He tries not to gasp audibly at the sudden jelly feeling as Al sets him back down. “There,” Al
says. “Now are you going to hold still for your neck or do I have to do it Mei’s way again?”
Mei’s way involves three pressure points and ten minutes of Ed not being able to lift his
arms. “Fine.”
Al cracks his neck too. “Go shave,” he orders Ed, who is now eighty percent wet noodle.
“You look like a vagrant. Meet me in that second floor room, I’ll start setting everything up.”
Ed teeters off up the stairs, Al following to pick up the pack of measuring equipment from
the Camp Amestris room. By the time he’s changing out of his pajamas his balance is back to
normal and his joints are all reporting for duty again, which is good given he’s got to raise
both arms to sort his hair out given the state it’s in even after a combing. His high-neck is
kinda sweaty from yesterday, so he figures he might as well stick with his sleep shirt for the
day; fuck, there better be some kinda laundry situation around here. He never packs much for
work and while cleaning clothes alchemically is possible it’s also super annoying and isn’t
very good about dealing with smells. For some things soap really is the answer.
He examines his doubled-up diamond and steel bracers by one of the windows, seeing the
couple of scorch marks in full daylight. Must be a heat component to their magic light
flashes, then. Or an exothermic reaction gets triggered when their lights hit something like
diamond. Probably won’t affect his and Al’s calculations for defining what magic is, on the
whole, but might be something to explore, if it turns out their base hypothesis is wrong and
they need to experiment further.
Boots, bracers, braid. Time to go fuck up someone’s day.
The room they’d identified as labworthy is tucked out of the way around the stairs; Al has
Ed’s notebook pulled apart on the little table in there, the binding transmuted open so he can
arrange the pages next to each other for ease of access. He’s also found or made a bigger
sheet that’s closer to the butcher paper they usually use for drafting arrays. “We’re building
this one from first principles, base up,” he instructs as Ed hooks a foot in a chair and sits
down across from him. “If magic is what we think it is, we better make sure the energy target
is very specific before we try it on anything.”
“Yeah,” Ed agrees, pulling his emissions testing notes from yesterday and scanning them
over, then glancing back up. “Talk about qi?” he says in Xingese, then grimaces reflexively
when he remembers that won’t work to prevent eavesdroppers here.
Al half grimaces back, but then gets a thoughtful look and goes a little distant in his I’ve-gota-legitimate-sixth-sense way. “We can probably talk,” he says after a moment. “Last night
people were going up and down the stairs, walking around a lot. There’s nobody near this
room right now.”
“It’s so fucking useful that you can do that,” Ed says, for the hundredth time.
“You could learn too, you know,” Al says, also for the hundredth time, completing what’s
basically their catchphrase at this point.
“Yeah, well, if Lan Fan couldn’t beat qi-sense into me I don’t think anything can. I probably
don’t have the right chakras or something.”
“You’re just allergic to meditating.”
“Wow, sitting for hours and trying to think of nothing? Why would I be bad at that?” Ed says
sarcastically.
“Well, you sit for hours plenty, on trains and in libraries, and I often look at your behavior
and understand very clearly that you think nothing at all -”
“I’ll kick your ass qi-free, you little snot. Tell me about the magic.”
Al easily deflects Ed’s half-assed bop towards his forehead and pins his hand to the table.
“They’re drawing from ambient qi, as far as I can tell, and channeling it through themselves,”
he says. “Or their… wands, when they’re doing spells. Like how alkahestry draws it in
through circles, kind of. Only they don’t need arrays.” He meets Ed’s eyes, amused. “Like
us.”
“Ugh, as if.” Ed tugs his hand free to flip his braid over his shoulder, grimacing. A whole
population of people who’re just… born as though they’d already gone through the Gate.
Kind of. He doesn’t know how he feels about that. “So they’re doing alkahestry but not
really?”
Al teeters a hand. “I don’t want to make any definitive claims on parallels because their qi is
different here, and I’m not sure in what ways. The fact that their shielding disrupts
transmutation on some level…” He eyes the pages that have Ed’s math spitballing from last
night. “What you described doesn’t sound like what Scar’s brother’s array did, but there may
be similarities. If they’re not using any kind of equation or array, though, I’m not sure how
we’d study it to find out. And their qi is different.”
“How different? You said it’s like, real fuckin’ dense here, right?”
“A lot more dense. If dense is even the right word.” Al looks vaguely dissatisfied with the
lack of available qualifiers for magic bullshit. “I haven’t really read much on different kinds
of ambient qi. Medical alkahestry focuses pretty narrowly on internal qi systems. That’s
pretty much always only one kind, so it’s described with - nóngdù, yāsuō. Thickness,
thinness. Concentration.” He blows out a breath. “I’m pretty sure I read somewhere that some
monasteries in Xing are built in places where the ambient qi is supposed to be thicker, but I
don’t know if that’s been quantifiably proven or even tested in any meaningful way.”
“But you can use it, right?”
“Yes,” Al says, but there’s a but lurking in there somewhere.
“What?”
“I’d… like to test it more, I think. Properly. I’ve only used the one array with it so far, to give
Hairy an EEG, and that was with a fully static array with a set power intake… well. It might
not make any difference.”
“You told Mustang the weird forehead qi was discrete from the kid’s life force,” Ed says. “Is
all the other magic shit different from ambient qi too? Like - they’re drawing on it, but like
alchemy - we pull from tectonic energy but it gets translated into alchemical energy through
us. Right?”
Al nods. “It feels like - frequency isn’t the right word. Or maybe it is? Pattern, maybe… it
doesn’t move the same way.” He considers the array paper, then pulls out a pen and starts
drawing squiggles. “I don’t think I can graph it, since it’s more of a feeling… in three
dimensions… moving… but it’s kind of like that.”
Ed considers the two diagrams. “That looks like the first time I tried to braid my hair.”
Al sighs. “I know.”
“Not something we can include in calculations, then.”
“Nope.”
“Let’s stick to the electromagnetism for now, then.” Ed taps his emissions notes. “I can define
a range from this, probably. If we take EM scripts and stick ‘em to the drain component of
the fuckin’... soul muncher circle then it should give us something to start with.”
“Electric Storm’s arrays?” Al guesses.
“Yeah, only the groundwork though - we don’t need any of the pulse stuff, just the
descriptors.” Ed pulls a free sheet from his vivisected notebook and starts writing out the
formulas for Al. “You gotta meet Kendra when you’re back. If this works right we’re gonna
owe her dinner.”
Al leans in to see what Ed’s writing, turning his head a bit to read upside down. “She
translates alchemical energy directly into EM?”
“Ya, it’s cool. Efficient.” It’s why Mustang had paired them for the hydrodam job; in
practicals it was the right choice because it was a giant fucking power plant made of
hundreds of thousands of tons of cement, and Kendra’s half an electrical engineer and Ed
does cement in his sleep. What Ed actually specializes in, though, is energy systems, and
Kendra’s an expert in alchemic manipulation of electromagnetism. The formulas Ed’s writing
out now are from the set she developed to describe current, voltage and magnetic fields in
order to translate alchemical energy into electromagnetic.
They’re lucky she was as happy to exchange shop talk as Ed was. Though really, her arrays
are in the same boat as Mustang’s - even if you know how they work, more or less, that
doesn’t do jack fuck for you when it comes to actually controlling the reaction.
Al pulls the emissions notes over while Ed finishes writing the descriptors. “You’re going to
have to make an average for the energy target,” he says. “We should have as few variables as
possible for this. Ideally, just the one.”
“Yeah,” Ed agrees, pushing the finished sheet to Al. “Here. We sub this in, define the target,
and we should be good to test.”
They both know the philosopher’s stone array by heart. It’s not something Ed’s probably ever
gonna be able to forget, and likely not Al either. It’s a fairly complex circle, fifteen aspects
across four stages and a fifth central focus, but it’s very straightforward in terms of purpose
and effect: extract energy, compress it down, bind it into battery form as a stone. Its targets
and directivity are clear and distinct. Ed can see pretty much exactly what they have to move
and replace to get what they’re going for, and he’s pretty sure Al can too.
They look at each other.
“So,” Ed says.
“So,” Al says.
“What else do we need?”
“Just to draw it out, I guess.”
They both look at the floor, standing up and nudging the desk back in tandem to evaluate how
much space they have. “Might have to push the walls back a bit,” Ed says. “We should have
it big enough to stand in.”
“Wait,” Al says. “If the house is magic. And… maybe sentient. And we’re making an array to
cancel all of that -”
“Outside,” Ed says immediately.
“Outside,” Al agrees, and they traipse down to the backyard.
Mustang finds them out there half an hour later. “This is not the third floor second door on
the right,” he tells them pointedly, standing over where they’ve flattened a big square of dirt
and packed it hard enough to take chalk easily; Ed’s doing most of the drawing out since
there’s only room for one person to stand between the two main circles, so Al’s sitting off to
the side extracting copper and zinc from the ground since Ed explained to him the plan to
make Hawkeye bullets. His eyes travel over what they’ve got drawn out, and then narrow
dangerously. “This is -”
“Yeah,” Ed says brusquely, standing up and dusting his hands off. “Relax. It can’t go live at
all until we connect all the aspects.”
“We took it outside because we didn’t want to destabilize the magic house by accident,” Al
explains.
“Yeah, if we blow that up it’s gonna be on purpose.”
Mustang doesn’t look appeased. “And you decided the yard whose physical dimensions are
supported by magic would be better?”
“Well, we figured it’d be okay since it’s expanded right now and probably works on an
accordion principle,” Ed says. “Where the fuck else would you have us do it? In the street?”
Mustang ignores that the way he always does when Ed gets the conversational upper hand.
“I’m glad you had the presence of mind to secure a workspace,” he says to Alphonse, like he
doesn’t know damn well it’d been Ed to raise a couple walls around their circle of dirt. The
last thing they need is some squirrel scampering across the array and smudging just enough
that activating it blows the whole thing to fuck. He turns a much more jaundiced look on Ed,
gesturing at the array. “Well?”
“Well, welcome to magic-be-gone, your one-stop shop to fixing all your wizard problems,”
Ed says sarcastically, rounding the array to point down at the equations with accompanying
flourish. “Don’t flip your wig, it does the job but leaves buildings standing. Intake here, here
and here - it’s modified for EM only, there’s the range.”
“This is the general version,” Al puts in. “If the intake doesn’t work without a specifier, we’ll
try that next.”
“A biological specifier,” Mustang says flatly. “To direct the intake to target lifeforms.”
“Well,” Al says. “Yes.”
“We’re testing it on magic shit first,” Ed says shortly. “Paintings, flowerpots, whatever the
fuck else. If it works on objects, we won’t need to modify it.”
Mustang folds his arms. “Walk me through it. All of it.”
Ed sighs hugely, hands on his hips, and tries not to sound too sing-songy when he talks
because he does actually see why Mustang’s got a live hedgehog up his ass here. “The base
array we’re pulling from -” he’s not saying philosopher’s stone array out loud anywhere near
this house - “is essentially an energy harvester with a secondary stage of compression and
binding. We don’t want a battery, we just want shit gone, so we stripped all that out and just
set it to discharge as light.” He points around the circle as he talks, showing Mustang the
explicit equations - they aren’t shorthanding anything, which is tedious but necessary when
you’re setting up the scaffolding on a reaction meant to channel the kind of power that rips
spacetime. “So we get an energy harvesting array, made to suck up magic via EM frequency.
Which might have some weird visual effects because it reads as light, mostly, and testing
might prove we need to give it a more efficient offload than light, though if we introduce a
heatsink it’ll be a separate linked array because we don’t want to splice anything into the
main one. For obvious reasons.”
“You said magic is qi. My understanding of the Dragon’s Pulse is that it’s in everything,”
Mustang says. “How does this array differentiate between the magic and anything else? Or is
that unnecessary?”
Al wrinkles his nose as he thinks about how best to explain. “Well… everything has qi, but
not all qi is the same.”
“Living qi and like… free-floaty qi, right?” Ed says.
Al grimaces at him. “Not quite. Animals feel different from humans, and living plants feel
distinct from the... huánjìng liúliàng.” He waves a hand. “Ambient flow.”
“So we calibrated to the narrowest frequency possible, the average of all the magic emissions
we tested,” Ed says. “That shit feels different to Al and is the only measurable type of qi so
far anyway, so… it proooooobably won’t eat life force. Or souls.”
Mustang’s eyes narrow further. “It’s a pretty narrow frequency window,” Al says
reassuringly.
“What is your testing plan?” Mustang says.
“I told you, flowerpots. Paintings. No point throwing it anything more magic-y until we
know if it’ll even work.”
“This is going to take human trials,” Mustang says unequivocally.
“Well yeah, if it works, so I’ll hop in there for the first go, and if it does start sucking my soul
out Al will cut the circle,” Ed says. “There’s a margin of error here, we’ve got enough of a
window to test safely even if it goes tits up.”
“We should add a feedback loop, so after initial activation it powers itself,” Al adds, mostly
thinking aloud. “We need to be able to check for any delayed or gradual reactions. It’ll ease
some of the offload too, bring down the chances of everything blowing up.”
“Do not blow anything up,” Mustang says, like they need fuckin’ reminding. “Put limiters on
the intake. If you don’t control how fast it absorbs or how much there’s a chance it could
overclock the array. And do not make it self-powering until we’re all very sure it’s not going
to shred whatever gets near it.”
Sheesh, someone’s fussy. Though it’s not like it’s a mystery as to why. “Yuh huh. So Hughes
is just gonna go off with the wizards? And Havoc?” Ed says, skeptical not so much of
Havoc’s abilities as backup so much as Mustang’s ability to let Hughes loose without full
body armor and a protective escort that includes eight alchemists and a tank. He had gone
amazingly nuts when he’d thought Hughes wouldn’t be waking up again.
“We need information,” Mustang says, the way other people say I’m having a root canal.
“Getting an idea of the society we’re operating in is critical, especially if it comes to
leveraging the local resources.”
Now, with any other officer this would be just another pat bullshit sentence about mustering
the whatever and evaluating the terrain, but in Mustangese it means something pretty fuckin’
specific. Ed’s eyes slowly go round. “You’re sending Hughes looking for hookers.”
“Oh no,” Al says.
“You’re sending Hughes looking for hookers. With Havoc.”
“We need information,” Mustang repeats, with only slightly gritted teeth.
“You’re sending them looking for hookers,” Ed repeats, because genius like this deserves
exploration from all angles. “In broad daylight. With a bunch of kids doing school
shopping.”
“With Havoc,” Al repeats, staring into a private, likely prescient inner universe of
tragicomedy.
“The radios also need testing over distance,” Mustang soldiers on like they haven’t said
anything, which is a bullseye indicator that he fucking hates this plan too but doesn’t have
anything better. “I don’t like that the wizards are so very baffled that our technology keeps
working in this magic house of theirs, and we don’t have access to local phones.”
“Does Havoc know he’s looking for hookers?” Ed says, ignoring Mustang’s sentences right
back. “Did you tell him? Does he know it’s wizard hookers he’s looking for?”
“Maybe it’s like a sort of magnet technique,” Al suggests. “Colonel Hughes is very married,
but if any professional saw Havoc walk into a bar -”
“- that’s easy meat,” Ed finishes. “Holy shit. Is that even humane? It’s like pushing a puppy
into a piranha pool.”
Al sends a faintly sad look Mustang’s way. “That’s very cold, General.”
“You would deny him a chance to promote his natural talents?” Mustang says, but his heart
isn’t in it; he’s clearly too distracted to properly bastard. He’s probably gonna snap and start
bellowing at Ed today at some point, so Ed makes a vague mental note to poke him with
something sharp after the array’s finished so they can shout each other out properly. Ed
barely even got to punch yesterday and for all Mustang’s failings the guy shouts like a
champ.
“Testing automail should wait until Arget returns,” Mustang continues, to Ed. “If it turns out
an analogous system isn’t enough to test properly I’d rather we lose half a hand than your
ability to walk. Did you finish making the chromoly steel?”
Ed pokes their spare pack enough to show the iron and coal inside. “Nah, I need your array’s
carbon content numbers. And whether you’re carburizing or I am.”
Mustang purses his mouth but takes the notebook and pen Al helpfully passes him, bracing it
on one of the dirt walls to sketch his array. “If those are for bullets, don’t make every round
explosive,” he says, jerking his head at Al’s neat cubes of dirt spiced with copper and zinc.
“Hawkeye will need hollowpoints as well.”
“I know her usual,” Ed says. He didn’t like the way his brain kept replaying Hawkeye laying
out her rifle, after Void, so he joined her at the range a couple times when she did her longrange firing practice. She didn’t say anything about it, just let him hand her the brushes and
cloths and oil and worked aloud as she disassembled and cleaned both Kerchatka and T-60.
Ed’s never going to be okay with guns, but tech specs are tech specs and better knowledge
than ignorance, always. “We’ve gotta test ricochet somewhere we won’t blow out some
neighbor’s window. Are they gonna take us anywhere today or just keep popping in and out
complaining about their shit government?”
“Bones sent her… wolf to say she’d take Hawkeye and myself to see that school castle they
want to use as an ambush site,” Mustang says. “She’ll be here before noon. Finish the
chromoly before we leave. Even if we don’t have an opportunity to see about shielding
Hawkeye will still need to test fire. The sooner the better.”
That’s true. Who the fuck knows what might pop out of the woodwork next. “What’re you
gonna be doing?” Ed asks.
“Making sure nobody comes out here asking what you’re up to,” Mustang retorts, which,
okay, Ed meant about whether he’ll clue in Bones about how he can blow things up or not.
“And that Hughes and the rest have a way to get back here without relying on any wizards.
Come get me when you have something workable. Before you start chucking paintings in
there just to hear them scream.”
Mustang finishes by handing Ed the chromoly array notebook and swishes off, leaving them
with their circle. “Y’know,” Ed says thoughtfully, “sometimes I think that guy needs a
vacation.”
“Screaming paintings,” Al says, not quite a question.
“Yeah, there was - wait. Deconstructing that one painting got rid of it, completely, and that
thing was apparently magic as all fuck - did I tell you about that?” Al gives him a patient
look that says he’s been trying to get Ed to tell him about that and that he’s glad Ed’s finally
boarded this trolley. “There was this asshole painting shouting in the hall that the convict guy
was trying to get rid of,” Ed says. “It was a portrait of his mom, can you fucking believe?
Anyway, since their photos move too, they say there’s like zero chance any of it is involved
with souls, so I deconstructed it for him. Came apart just fine, felt like only plaster and paint
and all the usual stuff. Probably other magic shit will deconstruct the same.”
“Doesn’t address how we’d deal with teleporting, though,” Al points out. “Or their light
flashes.”
“Deconstruct them?” Ed suggests, wiggling his fingers.
Al rolls his eyes. “Okay, Scar. Let me know when you have any bright ideas that aren’t
murder.”
“All my bright ideas aren’t murder.” Ed appreciates that Al’s meeting him in morbidity, given
they’re messing around ass-deep in the shit that gave them so much grief in their teenage
years. He taps his notebook on his thigh and looks down at the array, blowing out a breath.
“Come on, let’s connect up these dots.”
Chapter End Notes
hughes: just because i almost died that one time doesn’t mean i shouldn’t get to go to
curseworld hell disneyland
Chapter 61
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Connecting everything up doesn’t take long, but Al makes them double check every single
chalkmark like Teacher’s gonna vault out of the bushes and beat them with her sandal if they
have a single angle off. Which is probably the right attitude, but honestly, there’s like zero
chance this will do something worldbreakingly wrong unless someone’s actually in the circle,
and right now there’s no chance of that. This is just the test to see if it'll activate at all, though
frankly if it doesn’t Ed’s gonna go and request a Teacher thrashing himself because that’d
mean he needs to relearn, like, discrete math.
“I hit the switch, you watch the qi?” Ed says, when they’ve dusted the chalk off their hands
and are standing over the completed array.
“Together,” Al counters, which historically hasn’t worked great for them with this sort of
thing, but Ed can agree that yeah, he wouldn’t let Al light this fucker up alone either.
“Alright, on three,” Ed says, which has meant on two since even before they had to learn to
coordinate ambushes against Teacher. They both crouch at the same time, side by side, and
press their hands to the outermost edge of the circle.
The array activates. Light flares, blue-white, brighter than is normal for an electrical array
even, and Ed and Al backpedal in tandem even as the flare stabilizes and slowly dies down
into a steady glow. It’s bright even in full daylight, halogen-white, and Ed blinks a bit to get
rid of the afterimages; it’s all emanating from the circle, every line of it lit up, which at least
means they’ve balanced it perfectly.
“It works,” Al says.
“Guess so,” Ed says. “Is it sucking, like, ambient qi in?”
“Not… really,” Al says slowly, staring blindly at the array. “I think it is drawing in light. Not
that we’d really be able to tell, but… there’s not really any qi flow within the circle.” He
gestures vaguely with one hand. “It’s not affecting the ambient qi, I don’t think, but that’s -
it’s everywhere, you really only sense it when it gets moved by something.”
“And the circle isn’t moving it?”
“Not that I can tell.”
“Guess we’ll just have to see in testing, then.”
They look at each other.
“We should probably make sure -”
“- it doesn’t eat people first,” Ed finishes. “Yeah, okay. Human trial one, here we go,” and he
steps over the line into the array.
There’s a fizzle that makes Ed twitch, but nothing explodes or sears with pain or otherwise
launches his soul out of his body like a cantaloupe from a catapult, so he stays put. “You - oh,
for goodness’ sake,” Al grumbles, but his eyes are already unfocusing again in Ed’s direction.
“It’s... not affecting your qi.”
Ed exhales. He’s pretty sure he would’ve noticed internally if anything was going wrong, but
it’s good to have it confirmed. “There might have been a fluctuation just as you stepped in?”
Al continues, then refocuses and narrows his eyes. “But since you didn’t warn me I didn’t
quite catch it.”
“Like what, a qi fart? And what did you think was gonna happen, I’d push you in instead?”
“One year in Xing and I forget all about how you’re a thundering idiot,” Al mutters. “Can’t
imagine why I ever thought I could put those brain cells to better use. Do it again. Slowly this
time.”
Ed rolls his eyes but hops back over, though a moment later circle’s light dims, fading down
and winking out completely as the initial charge runs out. Ed restarts it alone this time, and
they play hop-in hop-out for a few minutes. It turns out there is a little blip whenever Ed
crosses the threshold, but according to Al it’s comparable to the qi fluctuation he’d
experience if an alkahestrist healed a minor cut and thus negligible. The circle continues to
fail to rip Ed’s soul out, so he wanders over the lines a bit more to make sure it’s not a fluke
and then they switch.
“No detectable change in my qi, either,” Al reports after a moment.
“What if we both stand inside?”
That also fails to trebuchet their souls out of their bodies. So far nothing interesting has
happened at all, which is objectively good given it means everything is going exactly as it’s
supposed to, but all that’s really doing is activating the suspicion generators installed at the
very center of Ed’s hindbrain. Plenty of things in life do go off without a hitch, exactly as
planned, and it’s not exactly a shocker that an Elric array is doing exactly what it should, but
on something like this it’s probably not a survival advantage to not try and stress test it out
the wahoohie.
They look at each other again. “We should like, really test this, huh,” Ed says resignedly.
Al nods. “Long-term exposure?”
They rub out some chalk and write in a feedback loop, which takes longer than completing
the entire first design did in the first place because they end up bickering over whether to
redirect the energy via the intake or output stages. (Ed wins through superior intellectual
debate, though as usual with Al that manifests as grabbing all the chalk out of reach until Al
throws up his hands and says “Fine! Fine! Who cares! Have it your stupid way, stupid!”)
Then Ed sits in the middle of the circle for the next twenty minutes, which is boring enough
that once he finishes writing up their notes he undoes his braid, makes Al condense him a
palmful of water and starts combing out the kinks that come from sleeping on it wet. Doing
alchemy while within the circle would constitute confounding variables, they both decide, so
it’s Al who makes the chromoly steel, shaping it into a neat set of ingots with the exact
percentages and carbon content embossed into the tops. He’s way too nice to Mustang. Ed
would’ve given him a gargoyle-shaped lump doing double middle fingers if he’d been feeling
that generous.
Ed’s flat on his back, one foot on the ground and knee pulled up with his automail leg
propped on top, cleaning his nails with his boot knife, when Mustang comes back, rounding
one of the dirt walls and announcing his presence via immediate bitch. “You - What did I say
about coming to get me before testing?”
Ed doesn’t bother to sit up, because if this is the shouting they’re still public enough that
Mustang will need help with the warmup. “Chill, bastard. Al’s the spotter.”
“And that’s worked out splendidly for you in the past.”
Ed rolls his head to give him an unimpressed look. “And what would you’da done if it did
suck my soul out? Throw a bouquet after Al handles it?”
“Your soul isn’t the only consideration here,” Mustang says, doing the I’m-holding-mypatience-in-both-hands-here-but-god-you-make-me-want-to-squeeze thing.
“So? If it did blow up and kill us both, you shouldn’t have been near it, because that way it
leaves at least one alchemist for the team so they can finish the job.” Ed gives him a smug
smile that he knows for a fact raises blood pressure. “And you say I don’t think ahead.”
Mustang looks like he wants to hang Ed upside down from the nearest tree but doesn't
actually start yelling, which is mildly disappointing in an oh-well-guess-there’ll-be-more-forlater way. He scans over the circle, tangibly packing away all his murdery little urges until
he’s just an annoyed bastard officer again. “Can you perform alchemy within the field with
the circle active? Or alkahestry?”
“That’s next,” Ed says, deciding to let it go. For now. “We already did both of us in the circle,
so multiple points of interference don’t fuck it, and theoretically any kind of energy transfer
shouldn’t make much of a difference given we apparently did lock the target down.”
Mustang eyes the glowing lines bitchily for a moment, then steps inside. He snaps his fingers,
and a single plume of flame leaps up. “Alchemy works,” he says critically. “At least at this
level. Can you ascertain the size of the generated field here? It won’t do much good if they
fire their light projectiles at head height and the field is only effective five centimeters off the
ground.”
Which is actually a good suggestion. Mustang’s terrible like that. “That’ll probably require
magic to test effectively,” Al says. “Seeing as the circle hasn’t really moved any qi so far that
I can tell.”
“Yeah, and I got seven more minutes in here before we can say for sure my qi’s not gonna
turn into banana pudding.”
Mustang’s gaze casts over the circle again, then returns to Ed and lingers on his posture.
“Really?”
Ed scowls, because it looks like instead of a good straightforward shouting match Mustang’s
decided to be catty instead. “What?”
“I’d have thought you had enough of rolling in dirt yesterday, but it seems once again I’ve
underestimated you,” Mustang says, because apparently it’s one of those days where he’d
rather wallow in his snit than shout his problems properly. Sometimes Ed just does not
understand the guy. “Though perhaps that’s not the right word.”
“I’ll get him into a salon someday soon, General,” Al promises, like a traitor.
“What the fuck, this again? I told you, there’s no point,” Ed complains. “Anything they do is
gonna get fucked to shit when I get sent out on the next assignment. Or, realistically, three
minutes after I walk out the door -”
“That’s not the point,” Al says chidingly. “You need to take better care of yourself. You only
get one body, you know that.”
“Empirically untrue,” Ed says, pointing at Al with the knife.
“He washes his hair with hand soap,” Al says to Mustang, because apparently family means
nothing and all kindness is a lie and there is naught but treachery in his soul. “Not even liquid
soap. Bar soap. He could just transmute it liquid. He doesn’t.”
“I saw him washing his hair in that little fountain in the park behind Command once,”
Mustang returns grimly. “He said it was easier than getting a room set up at the barracks.”
“I’d just gotten off a nine-hour train, asshole!” And he’d gotten jam in his bangs from the
sandwich he got on his way back to HQ, but Ed’s not gonna say that aloud; he has his dignity.
“And it was ‘cause of you that I had to report in right that fuckin’ minute, bastard, don’t act
like this was some kinda daily fuckin’ thing -”
“This was before I got him the apartment?” Al says, ignoring him.
“I can only assume so. In fact I fervently hope for it.”
“What is this, a grandma’s gossip circle?” Ed demands. “Are you here to talk about the array
or complain about my hair?”
“We’ll be passing back through the capital in Xing. Mei can get us into the Imperial baths
there,” Al promises Mustang. “I’ll take care of it.”
“You do your country a great service,” Mustang tells him seriously.
“You know what, getting your body back was a mistake,” Ed says to Al. “You should’ve
stayed stuck with one giant skirt and no hair for the rest of your life. Complaining about food,
whining about soap consistency , wearing ties and sweater vests - ”
Al smiles indulgently and doesn’t rib him about how his voice went all yay, you have a body!
towards the end there. “And you,” Ed rallies, jabbing his knife at Mustang this time. “My
hair this, my face that - do you want a sexual harassment claim?”
Mustang practically spells out try the fuck harder with his eyebrows. “Why, Fullmetal. I
didn’t know you wanted the disciplinary committee’s attention on your dress code violations
that badly.”
“You should look nice when Alleman Herdman and all the others take pictures of you,” Al
says, before Ed can tell Mustang all about what he can do with his disciplinary attention. “Or
at least not like a homeless cage fighter. People talk.”
“You are a celebrity, as you so helpfully explained to the natives,” Mustang agrees,
examining his own gloved hand like he’s checking a new manicure. “You keep showing up
on the front page looking taxidermied, you’re going to ruin Mina, Tina and Serena’s
reputations.”
Ed snorts. “Like they care, when they’re so busy ruining mine.”
“You wrote me a whole letter about how you came in from fixing that farmer’s field and his
wife nearly shot you because she thought you were their scarecrow, come to life and
animated by demonic forces,” Al says mildly. “That says something.”
“Yeah, that she was eighty-seven and half blind.”
Mustang must not find it interesting enough to keep bitching when he’s not the star of the
show, gesturing to interrupt and then holding his hand out in a give it here . “The chromoly?”
“Right here,” Al says, passing the sack over, then pats the dirt near the glowing array. “We’re
going to need to test this on a wizard.”
“Duh,” Ed says. “If this works on the Hairy kid, it’ll work on anything.”
“We need a wizard who isn’t underage, I mean. To start with. It probably wouldn’t look very
good if we used him as the trial run for an untested array.”
“We did test it. Look at how not dead I am.”
“You’re not a wizard.”
“What, are they biologically that different that it will rip their souls out?”
“No, but it’ll probably affect their ability to access... magic. We don’t know what kind of
secondary effects that might have. If any.”
“I’m sure someone will volunteer,” Mustang says, in a tone that says if no one does he sees
nothing wrong with tripping the nearest wizard into the circle. “If we explain matters. This is
ready for live trials?”
Ed shrugs and nods along with Al, because so far nothing has needed tweaking. “Yeah, let’s
get - hey. ” Ed sits upright. “The house is supposed to be full of cursed shit. That’s gotta be
like, malignant qi, right? Let’s toss some of it in here, see what happens first.”
Chapter End Notes
ed: ugly rights! Ugly rights!
al: i got bad news for u brother :/
Chapter 62
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Do you want us to bring you anything?” Hermione asks Harry, who’s sitting on his bed and
watching her and Ron get ready to go to Diagon Alley. Sirius is there because Harry hadn’t
seemed to want him to go, and between his own urge to provide some bucking up and Moony
giving him a pointed look when the situation was explained he’s got some gloom-lifting to
do.
“I’ll get you some broom kit refills,” Ron says, because he’s a good kid. “And owl treats for
Hedwig, yeah? Hey - Hermione, think if we put a Freezing Charm on a sundae from
Fortescue’s we can get it back here before it melts?”
“I’m fine,” Harry says, scowling. “I’ll write Elric his bloody list. Not like it’s anything new,
not going to Diagon Alley,” he adds. “I’ve been not going to Diagon Alley all summer.”
There’s a bit of an awkward pause. Sirius should probably say something - Harry’s clearly…
got opinions… but Ron steps up first, thumping down next to Harry on the bed. “I don’t have
to go,” he says bluntly. “Bet Mum can get my books for me, not like she doesn’t have the list.
They just need to see Weasleys about, yeah? There’s bloody eleven of us, nobody’s gonna
notice if I stay back - Hermione, you go with them, stand next to Fred or George and from the
back everyone’ll think it’s me -”
“No, you - you go,” Harry says, now looking at Ron like he’d just offered him a place on the
Chelsea Chimaeras in his own stead. “I just - it’s fine. If I go they’ll probably just set
dementors on all of us or something.”
“Yeah, and Mum will have to chase them off for us,” Ron jokes. “I’ve never seen her
Patronus, you know. Bet you anything it’s a Howler.”
“You should write that list, though, Harry,” Hermione says. “Anything you can remember.
You can give the Amestrisans the names, but - you’re the one in most danger, and if things
keep up like they have been - we should be doing our own research. Just in case.”
Here she darts a glance at Sirius, who obligingly puts his hands up and says “I’ll just go
check on whether the emergency portkeys are ready, shall I?” and heads out of the room.
Harry will tell him if those three plot up anything good.
Harry trusts him. It’s a warm little knot in the center of Sirius’ chest, made all the warmer by
all the years of everyone he’d known believing he really had killed all those muggles,
betrayed James and Lily, been working for the Dark Lord the whole time. Things are better
now, even shit as they are, but he doesn’t know if that rush of relief will ever go away,
whenever someone treats him as Sirius, as he really is, and not just another half-mad bloodsoaked son of Black.
Sirius passes through the kitchen just as the backyard door opens, and Mustang comes in
carrying a heavy-looking pack. Elric is right behind him, which explains where he and likely
his brother had buggered off to. Mustang gives Sirius a distracted sort of smile and nod and
passes by, likely on his way to the drawing room where Tonks and the rest are sorting out
taking some Unplottables to Diagon Alley. Sirius wouldn’t mind joining them himself, but
since Harry’s staying there’s not even the excuse of joining them as a dog.
Elric, though, goes straight for Sirius. “I need a bunch of your cursed shit,” he says, no
preamble.
“What,” Sirius says, then, a bit more intelligently, “Why?”
“So I can do what I did to your stupid screaming painting,” Elric says impatiently. He has to
look up to make eye contact; Sirius finds this equally hilarious and charming. The brother
might be taller, but he also smiles and dresses like a Danish exchange student working at one
of those children’s libraries full of interactive colors and shapes and things. This Elric looks
like a bulldog constantly on the edge of giving into the urge to bite. “Give it.”
Well, if he wants to rip up more of the Black family treasures Sirius is not going to be the one
to stop him. “You can’t touch most of it with your hands,” Sirius has to tell him, though,
because his family had kept some pretty nasty things, and even when Elric hadn’t yet
revealed himself to be a beautiful champion of righteousness and backhanding, Sirius hadn’t
really wanted him to run afoul of that. No one should, really.
“So I’ll use gloves,” Elric says, in a slow you dim dear boy voice that tragically detracts from
his fitness not in the slightest. He waggles his gloved hands demonstratively. “I’ve worked
with reactive stuff before, it’s not the end of the world if something’s a no-go for skin
contact.”
“Well, alright, mate, but that’s not going to be enough,” Sirius informs him, eyeing the
gloves. Why white? Seems like it’d get grubbed up fairly quick, and doesn’t seem to match
the rest of Elric’s commitment to black. “Some of that stuff you can’t even hover. Let me go
to talk to Moony - I mean, Lupin. He’s worked with cursed objects before, he can pick out
what he’s been through so far and see what he can give you.”
Elric scowls deeper but doesn’t argue. “Where is he?”
“Making portkeys for your lot,” Sirius says. “What, you need it right this second? He should
be done in a bit, we can bring the cursed junk out to you.” And maybe get a look at whatever
they’re doing back there. If Sirius can’t be going out with the rest of them the least he can do
is be in the know about whatever the Amestrisans are cooking up to use against Voldemort.
Elric makes a face but doesn’t seem to find this worth contesting, just waves a hand like he’s
deigning to allow it and heads right back out to the yard. Sirius bemusedly watches him go,
sparing some admiration for the thin cotton of the sleep shirt Elric hadn’t bothered to take off;
the bloke’s got the shoulders of a troll. Sirius wonders vaguely if there’s a pair of his own
leather pants left in this house somewhere that his mum wouldn’t have burned and if so
whether wearing them would be construed as a bit over the top.
The door closes behind Elric. “Ungrateful sot,” Sirius says appreciatively, and heads back
upstairs.
Harry is up in the master bedroom with Buckbeak, staring out the window they’d used to
watch the backyard Order meeting last night. Sirius steps over and sees Elric heading back
into the strange little enclosure the brothers made back there; from this angle Sirius can just
about see some vague white markings on the ground between the three blocky, disconnected
dirt walls. Harry is watching Elric like that braid is a particularly ornery Snitch, and it
suddenly occurs to Sirius that - well, Harry’s that age, isn’t he? Noticing - people? And
Ginny Weasley’s made no secret that she’d say yes in a heartbeat if Harry asked her to broom
riding or Giant Squid watching or frankly dragon dung shoveling, and Harry doesn’t seem to
have noticed a bit. But he’s watched Elric with narrow-eyed focus every time they’ve been in
eyeshot of each other, and Sirius remembers him talking lots about the Malfoy boy.
James was just as dense, though, especially at that age. And he ended up with Lily alright.
Odds are Harry’s as normal as they come. There’s probably nothing to worry about. And
what would Sirius even say if there were? He does wish he’d had someone to say something,
but, well, what is there really to say? Listen, if you fancy blokes, can’t lie, it’s no picnic, but
cheer up, it’s not the end of the world? If you think it’ll ruin your life, don’t worry, there’s
plenty of Death Eaters about to make sure you have much bigger problems?
Thinking about how his own perspectives - grown thick in his handful of post-Hogwarts
years, staring down the barrel of a life wholly on the outside of normal and abruptly
readjusted by being framed by one of his best friends and bunged in Azkaban - is starting to
really get him down, and Harry doesn’t look too happy either. No matter what he told Ron
and Hermione he can’t be happy at all to be missing the annual Diagon Alley trip. He’s
essentially on house arrest just like Sirius is, hiding from the Ministry, and no amount of fit
blonds striding around can change that, even if Harry did demonstrate an interest in anything
other than trying to find out what’s going on.
“Hey,” Sirius says, struck with brilliance. “Why don’t we go and take a peek?”
Harry looks at him immediately. “You mean go down there?”
“Yeah,” Sirius says, enthusiasm building. “I’ll go dog, you take your cloak. They’re going to
try and destroy cursed objects, they said - bet that’ll be a bit of fun. We can go and watch the
fireworks.”
Harry’s gaze immediately skips to his trunk, unshrunk out of Fred or George’s pockets.
“Wouldn’t they wonder about a dog around the place?”
“Nah, they’ll just think it’s somebody’s pet. People always do. Hermione brought
Crookshanks, didn’t she?” Sirius bounces his eyebrows and grins. “Besides. If we get caught
then no harm done. We’ll tell them we were just practicing. They’re the ones who told us to
go off and break the rules, didn’t they?”
Chapter End Notes
nothing_can_possibly_go_wrong.exe
Chapter 63
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Maes, on the whole, considers himself to be a pretty easy-going guy. You don’t last long in
Intel if you can’t laugh instead of crying, and you can bend over and kiss your ass goodbye if
you can’t deal with weird when you roll with Roy Mustang. Maes has been in Intel for over
ten years and he’s been rolling with Roy since that shitty little bitch stole his quiche in the
Academy, so at this point he has a graduate degree in weird and a teaching fellowship at
laughing at literally anything.
Wizards, though. These are some real stress-testing motherfuckers.
Usually bringing Roy in on a field op is like firebombing a daycare to fix a broken doorknob:
the original problem is gone, sure, but mostly because it’s been replaced by screaming
children and rubble. Roy was supposed to be here to smile and talk pretty. That’s it. Edward
was supposed to be here to figure out whatever weird alchemy problem they're having,
because he’s far less destructive than Roy is when it comes to fieldwork. For this, though,
screaming children and rubble would be a serious improvement, because diplomacy here is
going to be shotgun class only given the state of their state. The more Maes learns the more
he’s certain that attempting to contact the government in an official capacity is going to do
nothing besides paint giant neon targets on their backs.
Things are going to get percussive. Maes isn’t glad he spent almost a year in a coma, per se,
but he is fairly glad he missed the last round of this. He’s pretty sure if he’d been awake and
around for the previous staging of this specific apocalypse he would’ve gotten a little stressed
out.
He’s supposed to avoid stress these days. Doctor’s orders. Usually this works out fine even
given his job, because he gets to go home to his wife and daughter every night and their angel
faces, cooking experiments and occasional wall to wall glue and glitter explosions
immediately deep-six anything that may have happened in the preceding eight hours. Neither
Gracia nor Elysia are here to damp the fuse on this firework factory, though. This is good,
because it means they are safe at home, doing crafts and going to garden parties! And it is
also bad, because Maes is going to gut someone.
Like the wizard president, when they get their hands on him. Their Minister Fudge - the head
of state - had directly ordered an on-the-spot execution for the captured terrorist who was
instrumental in the kidnapping that led directly to the resurrection. That’s not the behavior of
someone who’s not trying to cover up a conspiracy - like, oh, say, a nationwide death array.
That’s what you do when you need to silence an overwhelmingly compromising leak,
because the cost of whatever they might reveal is higher than the risk of such a blatantly
corrupt move. Placing a gag order on the law enforcement department and choking out any
possibility of investigation is just the cherry on this massively corrupt cake.
On the other hand, this speaks to incompetence, or at the very least an exploitable tendency to
panic. If Maes needed to eliminate a witness, fast, he wouldn’t issue an executive order using
a high-profile state weapon and have it carried out practically in public. That’s the kind of
thing that makes certain people suspicious. It’s the kind of decision that says there wasn’t
quite a lot of thought going on as there maybe should have.
Or maybe the minister just didn’t care. This happened four months ago. It’s not like there’ve
been any consequences since then.
Maes is no longer surprised Director Bones went to Olivier Armstrong for help. Usually
asking Armstrong for help is like asking a crocodile to eat you out sans prophylactics, but
Bones had clearly seen that the situation was well past the point of worrying about a few
gaping flesh wounds to the groin. Even if she isn’t yet suspicious enough to consider the
minister complicit rather than just incompetent, she’s the most clearsighted of this vigilante
lot and understood that if her own community couldn’t curb this infection, bringing in an
invasive species would have to do.
Good old Olivier. Maes does have to wonder how she and Bones broke up and on what terms
they parted, because Roy Mustang is a hell of a thing to send your ex.
So Maes is collecting information. They need to corroborate what they’ve gotten so far from
the Order, and if this little shopping trip is being sent out for show since they think they’re
being watched, Maes wants to see who’s doing the watching. Arget’s expertise likely won’t
be as applicable here, but Jones is a legwork specialist Maes poached out of South, and he
should be able to spot any unusual attention or tails. Unless, of course, there’s extra magic
bullshit involved that they can’t even begin to speculate at.
Though Tonks is apparently a police officer, and presumably would know what that magic
bullshit would entail. Self-confessed as fresh out of the academy, but a rookie with training is
better than nothing. Certainly better than a civilian who thinks they’re the cobra commander,
ready to take on all society’s ills with their homebrew justice. Maes has met successful
vigilantes - or, as the courts recognize them, serial killers - and has not been impressed. When
the state won’t act then obviously communities and individuals take matters into their own
hands, but usually the types that decide to prance down this particular path decide that the
greatest social ill they need to be rid of is the local ethnic minority group or rival church.
And those who genuinely want to go terrorist hunting are typically highly underequipped for
the task, because terrorist hunting is not a sport, except for maybe people like Ed. Maes is
devoutly grateful every single day for people like Ed, and specifically for the fact that they
are one in a million. Ed is a dear and precious rarity and should fucking stay that way. Al is
doing the right fucking thing by pumping the brakes on whatever Ed has passing for a love
life, because if an Elric breeds the last fucking thing Amestris needs is for it to be
accidentally. Schtupping the Emperor of fucking Xing is by no means a low-risk endeavor
but at least it doesn’t automatically carry a risk of creating babies, known affectionately in the
business as hostages , and the Yao clan can afford to hire as many bodyguards as Ed’s had hot
dinners.
Maes sincerely doubts that every one of these wizards is an Ed, even if they do appear to be
very focused on the resurrection aspects of this nutshittery. If it ends up relevant, fine, but
how the mystic flow enters the fifth dimension and sixty-nines with some math to fall out of
a wooden stick as ‘magic’ is not his department. If Maes wanted to deal with that shit he
would have become an alchemist. He’s more concerned with how to get ahold of their bank
records and freeze their assets and tap whatever ghost animal relay they have that passes for a
phoneline, and figure out whatever the hell else it is wizards do when they have armed and
violent criminals running around in their idiot country. They won’t need Roy to set fire to all
their magic pencils if they can access the real power at the core of every society: accounting.
He’s still dealing with mystic bullshit regardless, though, because now they’re asking him to
teleport via fireplace.
“You want us to step into the fire,” Maes tries to clarify. “Because this will take us…
somewhere else.”
“You have to shout the destination,” says the redheaded gentleman with the ponytail and
earring. “Otherwise you can get really mixed up.”
The redheaded gentleman with the ponytail and earring is named Bill. Upon introduction
Maes refrained from endearing himself via jokes about whether he’s got any siblings named
Receipt or Invoice, because some of the names are pretty fucking strange here and for all he
knows his own translates to Donkey Nuts in the local anyway. “Right,” he says. “Shouting
the destination, very important. Kind of like communicating with a cab driver when you’re
drunk. Is there a reason we aren’t just teleporting?”
“Oh, not everyone can do side along apparition,” Bill says. “And since there’s a fireplace set
up here, we may as well use it and go to the leaky cauldron direct.”
Bill works at a bank. More specifically, he is contracted especially to design and assess
security systems for a bank. This isn’t precisely a lottery winner, but given the givens it’s
close enough: he’ll at least know more about the industry than anyone else they’ve got here.
Maes innocently wondered if Bill was available to join them, given he was apparently off
work for the moment - maybe read them in on the finer points of local finance, show them
around? And dear Bill kindly obliged.
He seems a very patient man overall, which Maes supposes is a survival trait for the eldest of
seven children. He’s been happy to answer questions and lasted through six photos of Elysia
last night before starting to look desperate around the eyes. “Any questions?” he asks now.
“It’s dead easy, but I know it can be a bit strange to those who’ve grown up muggle.”
They exchange glances. “We just,” Arget says hesitantly, “step in?”
“I guess that explains the fireplace design,” Jones says, sounding resigned.
“This… address shouting,” Maes says. “It’ll work fine with the translation rocks, I assume?”
Tonks opens her mouth, then pauses. “You know, I hadn’t thought of that.”
“Should be fine?” Bill says, though he does not sound nearly as certain as Maes would like
him to be. “I know loads of tourists come through diagonally and use the leaky cauldron flue
because it’s got the traditional archway entrance. And I know in France if you say atrium of
the ministry Anglais it takes you to the atrium no problem, so I think there’s translation
magic already. Percy would know better than -”
Here he cuts off and glances guiltily around the room, then seems relieved. “Sorry,” he tells
Maes and the others. “My brother Percy, he’s… he works for the ministry. He doesn’t want
anything to do with the order. What with everything else going on… It’s been hard on mum.”
Now he just looks tired. “We try not to mention him in front of her.”
“Works for the ministry,” Maes repeats. “In what capacity?”
A grimly amused sort of smile passes over Bill’s face. “Junior assistant to the minister of
magic.”
“Ah,” Maes says. Of course. Naturally there’s another opsec hole in the form of an
exploitable vigilante family member apparently under the minister’s personal eye. Why not!
They’ve already got an ex-terrorist calling himself Comrade Vigilante with the rest of them, a
hostage house elf determined to sell the group out and a dubiously telepathic teenager
potentially beaming his every waking moment directly into Voldemort’s head. This couldn’t
possibly be enough risk factors; they just needed at least one more. Maes grins at Bill. “Right
in the chimera’s den.”
“Yeah, that was Dad’s thought too,” Bill says, giving Maes a mildly weirded glance but
mostly just going back to looking tired about it. “He told Percy he’s pretty sure fudge only
promoted him because he wants to use him to keep an eye on us, because we’re close to
dumbell door. Percy wouldn’t hear a word of it. Ended up walking out. Personally, I don’t
think the order needs anyone who doesn’t want to be here, but it’s a bit… well, you know.
He’s family.”
“Probably for the best that he stays out of your way, then. If they start hitting him with rubber
hoses and asking delicate questions like ‘how long do you want your mother to go to jail for’
it’s best if he honestly has nothing to report,” Maes says cheerfully. “Especially since you
have ways to force people to tell the truth.” Allegedly. Arget’s come up with a whole slew of
options they can try, if it turns out the terrorist tattoo genuinely does what they say it does and
their truth potion turns out to work too. It’s all written out in a rigid color-coded flowchart
with cross-referenced annotations. Maes loves nerds.
“Right,” Bill says, now giving Maes a much less mild weirded out look. “Anyway. We’re not
using portkeys to get there because we’re not supposed to have unauthorized ones, so the
ones Lupin’s going to give us are for emergency use only. The leaky cauldron’s the most
popular entry spot, so there’ll likely be plenty of people to see us arriving; that’s good, we
want that, but it also means we’re going to have to act a little bit. If anyone asks, you three
are my friends, visiting on holiday from… well, it’s going to have to be America.” He casts a
critical eye over Maes with Arget and Jones beside him. “You’re probably going to stand out
a bit dressed like that, but everyone knows Americans are a bit weird anyway. They'll just
assume you’re tourists.”
Maes raises an eyebrow. All three of them are in civilian dress, and while that means Jones
looks like a preschool teacher for extremely athletic toddlers and Arget looks like she’d find
reading tax law to be a wild Friday night, he wouldn’t exactly call the outfits weird. (Havoc
got sent out of the room to change his dishwater civilian buttondown back to his black
uniform undershirt. They need him looking young and dumb but financially stable, not like
his closest female relationship is his mom.)
Thought frankly between the earring and the leather jacket, Bill’s the one who looks like he
wouldn’t mind shopping at wherever it is Ed gets his leather pants and has only toned himself
down because he’s had to dial it back for professional day wear. Of course, out of all the
Order members, he and Tonks look like the ones most likely to frequent nightlife or at least
admit that they know what a sex worker is. This works out splendidly for Maes, because
they’re going to need some help navigating in a place where they can’t even read the signs
and ideally he’d like to start in a place that works on a higher budget than the ones that
advertise by painting breasts on the door. If the terrorists really are largely comprised of the
wizards’ idle rich then they’ll be visiting the more discreet places, indistinguishable from
boutique hotels except for certain specialized furniture.
Maes isn’t looking forward to buying a three grand glass of champagne per head or whatever
else the cover charge is going to end up being around here. Those places don’t even let you
through the door without weighing your wallet, and what he’s going to be asking for is not
going to be cheap. Usually he’d enjoy the flashbacks to the early days of his and Gracia’s
courtship - her in the most fantastic outfits, him happily handing over a month’s paycheck
every date until Roy finally took pity and properly introduced them - but he’s not exactly
jonesing for nostalgia on this op.
This is just to scout things out, anyway: weekday daylight hours are likely to be the slow
times if the businesses are even open at all, and while working boys and girls are much more
likely to sit down for a chat when they aren’t busy pulling customers, the last thing Maes
needs right now is for them to be memorable. They’ll find a likely place, scout the situation,
establish themselves as well-tipping tourists and then come back and consult with Bill and
Tonks and the other wizards to determine what kind of approach might work best. Maes
needs to know what the popular sentiment on the street is regarding the terrorists, because it
might be safer sending him or Jones to pose as radicalized individuals looking to join up
instead of plainclothes police looking for an informant. Asking a sex worker to sell out a
paying client can be a tricky proposition, triply so when the client is part of a highly
organized and publicly violent gang, and whoever they approach might decide they’ll be
safer if they sell them to the terrorists instead.
Which is why they’ll have to come back later during proper business hours and let Roy do
the talking. Maes might be fluent in this particular dance but he’s not a native, and Roy can
talk a leopard into selling him its spots. If they need someone to compromise their own safety
by turning out a john, Roy’s the guy to make it happen.
“We can be tourists,” Jones tells Bill and Tonks agreeably, because he’s a people person.
“Anything in particular we should do, or avoid doing?”
“Not really,” Bill says. “Just stay close, I suppose. We’ll be a bit apart from the others and we
don’t have to go into all the same shops and things - doubt you have any interest in school
robes.” His eyes scan over them again, pausing on Arget’s shoulder-holstered sidearm; she
could use a bit more practice adjusting her stance to conceal it properly, but Maes is pretty
sure Bill’s focusing there because he was in the room to see her put it on. “What are you
looking for?”
“Information,” Maes says sincerely. “And largely from you, I hope! We’ve got all sorts of
questions we’ll be relying on you two to answer.”
The children choose that moment to pile into the room en masse, now no longer in pants and
sweaters, wearing the dark, loose dresses of varying lengths that seem to be the preferred
local attire. Molly Weasley heads up the rear, sporting the familiar look of near homicide that
is the universal hallmark of motherhood. “All of you, in line,” she snaps at the children. “If
you think I’ve forgotten about yesterday’s stunt -”
She catches Maes’ eye, smiles hurriedly and swipes some frazzled hair away from her face;
Maes smiles back in a fellow-parent way that he hopes conveys that yelling at other people’s
children doesn’t bother him. “You lot behave,” Molly tells her pack. “One toe out of line and
it’ll be me that takes your wands, am I clear? Good. Now! Are we ready?”
The door opens again, this time for Havoc, who is much more appropriately dressed even if
does have that hunted-chicken look that means he probably ran into Roy and got sartorially
criticized. "Jean!" Maes welcomes him, which makes Havoc very nearly glance side to side
in a who? me? before he remembers that for this little jaunt he's not Captain, he's incognito.
Maes can't wait to tell him his job is going to be floor bait while Maes talks to the local
madame. "Look at you, that's much better! Ready to go?"
"Yes sir," Havoc says resignedly, taking up position with Jones and Arget. "Are we touching
a flowerpot again, sir?"
"Oh, no," Maes says jovially, happy to spread this particular news around. "We'll be stepping
directly into that fire right there! Which can also teleport us, just like flowerpots! And also
like flowerpots, presumably without third degree burns."
"What," Havoc says blankly, staring at him.
"Oh, don't worry, flue fire doesn't burn," Bill says reassuringly. "It's one of the safest methods
of travel."
Havoc does not look reassured, but before he can try to tell Maes he's quitting his life to run
away and become a yam farmer the door opens again. Remus Lupin enters the room, holding
a handful of loops of string and his usual quietly distracted air in full effect. “I’ve charmed
the port keys,” he says, holding out some string to Tonks and Bill first. “This seemed the
most unobtrusive option - untie the knot and it’ll take you back here. That way it’s unlikely to
trigger by accident.”
Maes smiles wide at him and accepts his own loop of string when it’s his turn. Remus Lupin
doesn’t hold himself like a trained combatant, but then these wizards wouldn’t, not with the
way they use the magic. He hunches his shoulders. He doesn’t stand up straight. His voice is
always quiet; his remarks intelligent but subdued, useful but never in the spotlight. He holds
himself like a man balancing a jar of acid between his fingertips: careful, precise, exactingly
controlled. Aware of consequences. Aware of his own image. Aware of exactly the kind of
damage he could do.
Exactly like Roy held himself, in the handful of weeks after Ishval ended and before he
learned how to hide it.
Maes really, really, really doesn’t like it when people remind him of Roy. There’s usually
nothing so worthwhile as what Roy’s got underneath.
Luckily - or perhaps unluckily; Maes generally wants dangerous unknowns up close and right
where he can see them, but he can’t afford to be distracted on this trip - Lupin is not
accompanying them, and steps back quietly to the edge of the room once he’s handed out his
teleporting friendship bracelet goodies. “That’s us ready to go, then,” Bill says, looking
around. “Tonks, you want to go first?”
“Yep. Ta,” she says, stepping forward to take some powder out of the bag.
“Remember, you’re our Auror guard,” Bill tells her solemnly. “Be sure to send back a
Patronus screaming for help if the place is Chocka with death eaters.”
“Ha bloody ha,” Tonks says goodnaturedly, tossing the powder in. The second it touches the
fire the flames roar to head height, abruptly lime green and oddly uniform in color; she steps
in, unhesitating, says “Leaky cauldron!” and disappears.
The fire immediately dies back down to normal. There’s a moment of silence where the
wizards mostly watch Maes and the other two. “Wow,” Jones says dutifully.
“See, nothing to it,” Bill says. “You ready? Here, I can throw the powder for you.” With that
he takes a pinch, tosses it in and steps back as the flames once again roar green.
Maes would very much like Roy to be here to step into the breach first, only Roy’s fucked off
with Riza and Director Bones after giving Maes the burningly bitchy look that said if he dies
in this wizard backwater Roy will go and remind everyone he’s an arsonist. He’s gotten so
much worse at hiding that he cares about Maes beyond fantasies of violently smothering him
with a pillow, and this teleport-via-fire shit is exactly the kind of nonsense he’d hop into just
to measure his own dick. Instead Maes has to be the cobra commander here, take a deep
breath, give Arget and Jones a nice reassuring leaderly nod and step into the green flames.
Chapter End Notes
maes: roy might not be a real sex worker, but you definitely come to him if you want to
get screwed
also yes, if you're rereading, i edited this chapter, because on the first go around
[drumroll] I FUCKING FORGOT HAVOC
Chapter 64
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Bones teleports them herself, Roy on one arm and Riza on the other. They land on wet grass,
Roy’s boots squelching as his weight suddenly reinstates itself on gravity. They’re at the very
edge of a forest, all towering pines and thick moss, and there’s a castle directly ahead of
them. It’s not close, standing on a ridge some two kilometers or so distant over the edge of a
vast lake, but there’s nothing between them and it besides open moor.
Riza does a 360; Roy breathes in deep. He’s developed a fairly decent intuitive sense for
humidity calculations over the years, mostly learned through trial and error; if the air feels
like this the reaction will do that. This island is... wet. When Maes was making cheerily
innocent small talk about the weather the wizards mentioned that it did in fact rain often here,
sometimes multiple times a day, in showers that came and went in otherwise sunny weather,
which is just about what Roy is starting to expect from this isle of blight. This is going to
be… seventy percent, maybe sixty-five. Workable.
“That’s hog warts,” Bones says, jutting her chin at the castle and then gesturing with a hand
in the opposite direction, towards a cluster of buildings down the slope of the hill away from
the trees. “And that’s hogs mead, down the way. The hog’s head is at the outskirts - that’s the
bar Alastor said they’re thinking of using, to stage your ambush. I thought we could... walk
and talk.”
Ah. “What an excellent idea,” Roy says. They’d understood each other quite clearly, then,
across the dinner table last night. Good. Bones is a resource he would prefer to use fully, and
one he would rather not have to do without. Ideally Maes would be here for this - and
Fullmetal too, for the experience as well as his unerring gift for stumbling on the very ugliest
bones of any situation, even if it does usually end up sending him head over ass to do it - but
as is they’ll just have to make do.
“It seems very remote up here,” Roy adds, looking out at the admittedly impressive view as
he scans for the nearest road or path or, given the deeply pastoral look of the distant
buildings, abandoned goat trail. “Hardly a soul for miles.”
“And no listening or tracking spells, too,” Bones agrees. How direct. “We’re just outside the
edge of the hog warts wards here. We can speak freely.”
“How nice,” Roy says. Riza’s watching the castle. “Quite open, however. I imagine anyone
looking out from, oh… any of those towers will have a perfect view of our walk.”
“Well, let’s us just go and follow the edge of the woods then,” Bones says, in a can’t hurt to
humor the paranoiac tone. “And what exactly is it you don’t want anyone in the castle
seeing?”
Plenty. “Oh, just a precaution.” That’s the magic school for little magic children that dear
Albus is headmaster of, and if it’s anything like any of the military academies Roy grew up in
it’s both fortress and personal microstate for whoever’s at the top of the pile. Who the fuck
knows what might be watching. “You said yourself that a death eater impersonated one of the
order for nearly a year. I’d rather we be a little overcareful than end up paying for negligence
later.”
Bones snorts. “You’ve got me there. This way, then, watch your step.”
Roy falls in behind as Bones sets off around the curve of the treeline, Riza at his right with
the pack of chromoly ingots over her shoulder. Bones is promisingly receptive and
refreshingly blunt, which will likely translate into exactly the kind of largely unlayered
conversation Fullmetal would benefit from listening in on. Roy really does need to make
more of these opportunities for him. Fullmetal is showy, powerful, loudly abrasive about it
and publicly treats Roy like a dimwitted poodle, which makes him an irresistible distraction
for anyone trying to outthink Roy in real time and handily convinces them Roy’s as dumb as
he looks to boot. People get angry at Fullmetal. They get off topic. They say things they don’t
mean to share. And then, best of all - Roy enjoys this part, it’s like watching a six-car pileup
in slow motion - they start to like him. And they start to want to help.
Bones, though, is working on a metric set by Olivier Armstrong, who thinks Fullmetal would
be pretty okay if he got over his sad pansy wibbling about murder and upon his reenlistment
sent him a bearskin rug with the head still attached and a charming little note inviting him to
come back up North and get his ass kicked anytime. Roy still doesn’t know what in the raw
stupid hell Edward did to regain his alchemy, somewhere in between swanning off to Xing
every three minutes and developing a disturbing aptitude with knives, but he can be patient. It
hasn’t come around to bite them yet, and he cannot deny it’s given him a priceless asset with
an almost infinitely variable alchemical skillset. A real asset this time, not just an opportune
wildcard that turned out to be wilder than anyone could have expected. The brat had his
chance to leave the military: Riza presented him with the extremely generous medical
discharge papers herself. Instead he’d come back, kicking Roy’s new office door in so hard it
lost the knob slamming off the rebound, and promptly gave Roy a heart attack by clapping
and transmuting it back on. And Edward - newly nineteen, brother whole and healthy,
apocalypse averted, well-off and well-connected with plenty of job offers - had ignored all
demands as to what the hell he’d done, planted his newly matching fists on Roy’s desk and
grinned like he was daring Roy to refuse him.
Which means Roy’s going to drag him hair first into political competence whether he likes it
or not. If Edward wants to stick around he’s going to learn.
To think Roy had entertained vague thoughts of making Edward play attaché during some of
these meetings. Have him fetch coffee, cut his teeth on certain kinds of negotiations, use him
as a power tactic. Hello, wizard nation, here is my subordinate who incidentally
singlehandedly just tied up your terrorist problem and presented it for you in a nice little bow;
yes, isn’t he just darling, we definitely have fifty more just like him, be very afraid, let’s talk.
What a fucking pipe dream. Roy has been breathtakingly stupid to ever consider the terrorists
a separate problem. Domestic terrorism is generally a giant thundering clue that all is not
fucking well on the home front, and that’s even without the news that someone like Lucius
Malfoy is the prominent public head of a major political bloc.
Quaint little country, Olivier said. No organized military, Olivier said. No wonder they’re
asking for help. Roy should’ve fucking known this would never have been a mere
intelligence-gathering civil little jaunt. That the director of law enforcement was the one to
ask Olivier for help doesn’t negate the fact that she’s the national director, even if their nation
isn’t so much a country as a couple of rival cartels engaged in gang war over control of their
cult. The actual country they all live in is unaware of their existence, save an unlucky few
always living under threat of memory erasure. The wizards aren’t even running a shadow
government, they’re just hiding.
And as far as Roy’s concerned they can stay that way, because of course the terrorists have
philosopher’s stones and dreams of world domination. Of course. He didn’t sign up to run a
takeover on alien turf, thank you, Olivier, but given that around here terrorists and state are
now definitively one problem that’s what it’s going to have to be. Does she think he likes
coups? Does she think he wants to make this a hobby?
Riza would probably tell him the reward for digging the best hole is a bigger shovel. Fine. So
no politics for Fullmetal, because building the killswitch takes precedence. Also fine. Bones
is here and ready to listen to Roy, even if she isn’t the core player of the vigilante cartel and
defers to Albus still. And Albus has made it clear he thinks he is operating at a level above
mere politics.
That’s fine too. There’s a lot you can get done from underneath someone, as the callgirl said
to the construction crew.
“So,” Bones says as they further round the forest and the castle slips further beyond the trees.
“Anything in particular you’d like to share, or shall I start with questions of my own?”
“Oh, we can start,” Roy says, glancing around and stopping at the base of an impressively
damp-looking tree. “I believe you wanted to see more of my alchemy.”
He snaps. A few yards away a patch of grass roils into flame. He watches Bones turn sharply
to look at it, then bring her gaze back to him when it snuffs out as suddenly as it began,
having burned wet plant matter hot and hard enough to leave only a perfect circle of char.
“Flame Alchemist,” Roy says blandly. “You get the gist.”
Riza had glanced over when the fire lit too; now she walks over and toes the ash with her
boot, then starts scraping it clear to uncover the dirt underneath. Bones narrows her eyes
slightly, not looking away from Roy. “That scales up, doesn’t it.”
“Yes.”
Bones nods as though confirming something. Roy would very much like to know what kind
of brief Olivier sent her about him; dangerous but dim, obviously, but in what detail? “You
really don’t trust Albus.”
Roy raises his eyebrows. “And you do?”
Bones’ mouth tightens. “I don’t know what his game was with not warding potter’s house.
It’s true wards stand out, to anyone looking for magic, but for Merlin’s sake, the boy was
placed with muggles, no record of him anywhere. He didn’t have a wand until he went to
school, so anyone trying to find him would’ve needed to already have some of his blood or a
lock of his hair, and when he was left with that family he wasn’t old enough to have hair. No
one would have been looking for wards in some Muggle town in the first place. He should
have been warded.”
“And the single posted guard conveniently disappeared right before the attack,” Roy says
mildly. “Something isn’t adding up here, Director.” Over by the charred circle, Riza digs a
stick of chalk out of her inner jacket, crouches down by the cleared earth and begins to draw.
Bones sets her jaw. “Look - Albus is old. He’s twice my age, and he was a scheming old
meddler before I was out of nappies so I’m not shocked if at a hundred and fifty three he’s
starting to lose his grip.” Roy carefully doesn’t move a muscle at that little horror of a
sentence. “But he’s still the most powerful wizard in Britain. He did a lot to rein in the pure
bloods as mug Wump and he’s the reason we’re not all wearing ‘Grindelwald is Great’
underpants and speaking German. He wants Voldemort dead as much as the rest of us.”
“By any means necessary,” Roy ventures, because throwing children to the wolves is
generally a decent indicator of what lines one is willing to cross. Roy would know.
“No. I want him dead by any means necessary,” Bones says, coldly matter of fact. “Albus is
convinced it won’t stick without fulfilling the prophecy. I don’t care. I asked Livvie to send
me anyone she could spare who could do the legwork my Aurors can’t, stuck under the
ministry’s thumb. Maybe Voldemort can only be slain by god Rick’s sword on a full moon by
a troll in a tutu, but what we need to do is cut the death eater numbers. Before they overrun
the whole bloody country this time. Albus can do whatever he likes with his prophecy when
Voldemort has no army to send out and no lackeys to hide him away.”
“Lucius Malfoy,” Roy says coolly.
Bones bares her teeth in an ugly smile. “You think we haven’t tried? He’s careful. He knows
I’m not the only one who’d throttle him barehanded if he ever let himself get caught alone
and unawares. He was Voldemort’s right hand for a reason. I’m not sending anyone charging
in on a suicide run when our position’s one foot on a bloody roller skate as it is.”
Here her grin turns disturbingly reminiscent of Olivier at her happiest, which is usually
heralded by the charming accompaniment of blood plink-plinking off her sword. “But now
you’re here.”
Yes. Now Roy is here, and Olivier’s going to remember that people who use him tend to
regret it. “Your confidence is an honor,” he says aloud. “We will of course do everything in
our power to achieve the objective.” If only because they really don’t need an immortal
wizard armed with philosopher’s stones deciding to munch through Xing and bring Amestris
back onto the war-on-all-fronts merry-go-round. “We are, however, working with a lot of
unknown quantities. You understand when I say we are looking at some operational
difficulties when it comes to working with civilians whose guiding tactical light is a...
prophecy.”
Bones’ mouth twists slightly. “Most of the order are those who have either lost family
directly to death eaters or would be first to die if Voldemort takes power. They’re motivated.
They aren’t trained Aurors but they can hold their own in a fight and you don’t need to be
Fillyus flit wick to cast a shield charm. They can charm portkeys for you and apparate your
lot around, at the very least, if you don’t want them in the fight.” She jerks her chin at Riza,
who has finished with the chalk. “What’s she doing?”
“Setting up the second of your requested demonstrations,” Roy says, stepping up to the
opposite edge of the burnt grass. Riza doesn’t look up from setting the chromoly ingots into
the circle. “Colonel Hawkeye is a veteran sniper. Magical combat, from what we understand,
is entirely close quarters, which gives us the range advantage.”
“This is for your guns, is it?” Bones says, examining the circle. “I thought all that was
muggle business. It needs alchemy too?”
“To establish the equipment,” Riza says, stacking the last ingot in the intake loop and sitting
back on her heels. “We had to cross through another country to reach the Divide. When
traveling in an official capacity, taking certain kinds of firearms across international borders
can be considered military provocation.”
“So we create workarounds.” Roy crouches down opposite Riza and presses a hand to the
circle’s edge.
This array is familiar, inasmuch as any metalwork transmutation can be. Roy first transmuted
part of a firearm for Riza in Ishval, when constant use warped her T60’s barrel enough to
start seriously compromising accuracy; resupply was sketchy enough that the odds of her
getting any new gun were a joke, let alone a specialized long-distance rifle. They’d
improvised. These days both of them know this array by heart: the latest version, refined over
the years. After the Promised Day, on nights too dark to sleep they’ve spent more than once
sitting up in Roy’s kitchen and running what-ifs and contingencies until the sun comes up: on
how to communicate more effectively when under surveillance, on how to move and store
supplies, on the options available to them now that Roy can clap to create arrays.
It makes his skin crawl still, despite all the practice. Likely it always will, but it’s been a long
time since anything so trivial has affected Roy’s ability to perform. He’s not stupid enough to
throw away such a tool on mere distaste alone, and doubly so for having bought it in blood.
And his distaste is only a fraction of Riza’s, and far less entrenched besides. She has never
hesitated for a second. Neither will he.
This array, though, requires no clapping whatsoever. He has to focus to exclusion for a
moment, because metals aren’t his forte and this array doesn’t control shape at all, merely
substance; he has to separate the gun into its mechanical components even as he combines it
into one assembled piece, adjusting the shoulder mount and barrel to Riza’s preference,
hollowing out the stock to make it lighter. It’s already going to weigh too much - the
Kerchatka is designed for caliber switching, dependent on bolt and barrel exchange, which
allows for either incendiary or high-velocity armor piercing rounds and makes it a monster of
a thing to carry around. But Fullmetal was right about arming for homunculi, and more
importantly Riza agreed, though hers was phrased as a very dry I don’t like it when I shoot
something in the head and it doesn’t die.
“This is a recreation of a Kerchatka anti-materiel rifle,” Riza tells Bones, watching the gun as
it rises slowly out of the array. “It’s primarily used against military equipment such as
vehicles, installations and ordinance. It can also be an anti-personnel weapon, but its main
purpose is piercing armor and destroying fortifications. Hence our interest in magical
shielding.” Riza reaches out and lifts the rifle out of the circle, and Roy lets the transmutation
go as she stands. “Could you describe the hog’s head building to me, please.”
“Describe the building?” Bones says, more skeptical than confused as she eyes the gun.
“You mentioned it was on the outskirts,” Riza says, hefting the rifle once by its rail grip and
then handing it to Roy. “Single-story building, two-story…?”
Bones turns to squint at the collection of huts down the slope, pointing after a moment. “That
one there, I think. Two stories, pointed windows in the roof. We can go in, should be open
even this time of morning, but we’ll have to go as customers. Best not to stand out.” She
casts a dubious eye over the rifle. “Do you need me to cast a shield…?”
“Not at the moment.” Roy sets the rifle down to lean upright against his side, the barrel rising
over his shoulder, and takes the empty pack Riza hands him. “We don’t have the right kind of
ammunition with us, and firing this here would attract more attention than we want, I think.”
“So you’re…”
“Scouting,” Riza says, unbuttoning her jacket as Roy folds the thick canvas of the pack in his
hands. This transmutation takes a clap: Roy concentrates, touches his hands together and
directs the energy into the cloth. It splits down the middle, one half writhing into a single
wide strap, loops forming on the ends; Riza takes it from him as the crackling dies, and in
return he extends an arm so she can drape her jacket over it. “If we’re going to stage the
operation here we’ll need to know the terrain.”
Riza attaches the makeshift strap to the rifle in a few efficient moves and slings it across her
back. It looks almost comically oversized on her, making Roy wonder if he can shave a few
ounces off the stock, even though he knows for a fact she can do more than one pullup with
his entire bodyweight hanging off her waist. He’s not going to suggest it. She’ll let him know
if she needs more maneuverability.
“Well,” Bones says, eyeing Riza like she’s now wearing the world’s most deeply gauche
outfit and she's trying to figure out whether to say something about it. “The hog’s head sees
some strange types, but I don’t think even we’ll be able to blend in with that.”
“Oh, I’m not going in,” Riza says. She tugs a pair of tac gloves on from her belt, resettles the
Kerchatka and heads for the trees.
“And now she’s…” Bones watches Riza go. “Climbing a tree,” Bones says, in the resigned
tones of someone watching the only sane person they know pull their underpants onto their
head and start cartwheeling.
“Getting a better vantage point,” Roy agrees, folding Riza’s jacket over his elbow and
picking up the other half of the canvas pack. Riza’s unlikely to end up firing from treetop -
not high enough for the current distance - and only then if they transmute a platform. The
Kerchatka weighs almost as much as Riza does and can only be fired lying prone, unless she
wants to dislocate her own shoulder. Fullmetal or Alphonse or even Roy can raise her a tower
out of dirt, and likely will have to do so regardless of what the terrain is like wherever they
end up doing this. She’ll need a spotter, which is a resource allocation they’ll likely have to
make on the spot. If Riza’s going to be separated from the rest of them on long-range support
Roy wants her with an alchemist, and both he and Edward are almost guaranteed to be on
point kicking doors in, so to speak; that leaves her with Alphonse, who is certainly
formidable but also their only medical support.
This is an argument to keep him back, out of any close range combat with Riza, and given
teleportation, if someone gets hurt badly enough to put them out there is a much better than
usual chance they can get any casualty to him before any damage becomes irreparable.
Those decisions can be made later on. Bones is looking at him. “Alastor says you want to
take Malfoy head on,” she says assessingly.
“Yes. Given the situation, it’s unlikely we have the time for a more circumspect approach.”
Maes will be exploring all the options, of course, because if it turns out they can’t shut off
magic Roy’s not sending anyone on any suicide runs either. If wizards can break each others’
shields, however, the plan remains fairly straightforward: locate the terrorists, lure them out
and have the vigilantes address the shielding while Roy and Riza go to work. That’s going to
practically eliminate any chance of taking prisoners alive, but, Roy thinks with heavy irony,
they are here representing Amestris, after all.
“You want to take him at home?” Bones continues, not skeptical so much as advisory. “I’d
recommend against that. His family has had generations to fortify their manor. Not that
taking him on anywhere else will be easy. He’s got bodyguards, he never alone in public and
he will put up a fight. However you decide to go at him, he’s not going to be an easy mark.”
“Mm,” Roy contributes, holding out the pack canvas enough to connect his fingertips again
and transmute it into an extremely rough cover for the Kerchatka. It's no weapons case, but
toting around a giant stick thing in a ratty bag is still better than hauling a massive gun
through any public spaces.
Bones doesn’t look like she thinks he’s heard enough warnings. “He’s no idiot, either. If he
sees he’s outmatched, he’ll either run - or summon the dark lord to him. For Malfoy, he’ll
probably even come. And if you suddenly find yourself fighting Voldemort, you’re going to
lose people. Full stop.”
Yes, this dreaded dark lord. “If we fail to plan correctly, likely yes.”
Bones’ expression isn’t exasperated or condescending, at least, just coldly frank. “People
have underestimated death eaters before. They died.”
If Bones wants his credentials, she can have them. “Let me put it this way,” Roy says
clinically. “We’ve been tallying up the death toll from your last… war... with Voldemort. His
group is estimated to have been responsible for the murder of approximately four hundred
and eighty-four people. Over a decade.” He meets her gaze evenly. “I personally had a higher
body count before my twenty-fourth birthday. Olivier didn’t just walk into the officer’s
lounge and ask who wanted to travel to new places and meet interesting new people, Director.
My team are specialists; this is not our first time dealing with this kind of problem. We are
not intimidated by Voldemort.”
Bones’ eyes have narrowed, but she’s looking at him with a faint gleam of approval at the
edge of her perpetual half-frown. Unsurprising. There’s a certain kind of old-battleaxe officer
that might not strictly approve of mass slaughter but certainly likes that Roy’s capable of it.
He gambled on Bones being the type, and struck right. No wonder Armstrong likes her.
“Now. Amestris does not have teleportation, nor forcefield shielding, nor what I’m sure are
other advantages in the magical arsenal,” Roy says. “Taking on a superior opponent,
however, is only a matter of preparation. You and Alastor seem well versed on the kinds of
defenses Malfoy may employ. I am confident in my team’s ability to address them.”
Bones chews on that for a long moment, but Roy can tell he’s made contact with a lever
attached to something she wanted. She can think him a sociopathic jackass all she likes; she
can clearly separate personal feeling from professional assessment, and what matters is that
she thinks he’s the kind of sociopathic jackass who can solve her problem. “What are you
going to do with Albus,” she says.
Ah. The real question. “You tell me,” Roy says mildly. “What kind of trouble is he likely to
be?”
Bones scowls, a little of her business face relaxing into irritation. “He could stand to share a
little more information now and then, but he’s not an idiot. He knows you’re here to help.
Getting a straight answer out of him can be like pulling Nundu teeth but he knows we can’t
afford not to use every resource.” Her scowl deepens, and here there’s a shadow of pain, and
regret. “Or at least he seems like he does. I really don’t know what he was thinking, not
putting wards on potter’s house.”
“He does seem to be getting on in years.” Roy’s not necessarily convinced that mere senility
is at play, but then again, it’s not something to rule out for a hundred and fifty three year old,
either. Albus didn’t interfere when Bones took over security arrangements for the potter
house on the spot, but at that point it would’ve looked even worse for him if he did. The fact
that Bones is defending Albus to Roy even after such a glaring red flag says a lot about the
kind of cult of personality Albus has going for him. A hundred and fifty three - well, that’s a
long time to cultivate a reputation. If you prove yourself still sane and capable at a hundred
and twenty why should people presume you’d go batsypoo a mere thirty years later?
Bones gives Roy a look. “Mistakes or no, we need him. He is the most powerful wizard in
great Britain. We want him close, if only to have something to throw at Voldemort if he
swoops in with Merlin knows what and starts blasting his thricedamned curses.”
There is that. “If he’d prefer to concern himself with his prophecy, I don’t see why he
wouldn’t leave operational planning to us.”
“And if he doesn’t?”
Roy raises an eyebrow. “You tell me, Director,” he repeats. “What is he likely to do, if things
aren’t going the way he wants?”
Bones looks disgruntled. “Tell us even less and go off doing his own thing even more than
usual,” she grumbles. “For you - well. He refuses to use the killing curse, and the rest of the
order tends to follow, even though fighting bloody death eaters for your life has been found
an acceptable defense for it in court. He doesn’t like to engage any death eater directly, and I
have to agree with him there - you said it yourself: they’re civilians, mostly, and personally
I’d prefer if we didn’t lose any more of the order.” Her mouth takes that grim twist again.
“They’ll fight. But if dumbell door believes they can’t win without fulfilling the prophecy -
the rest of them believe it too. And that affects how they think about things. How they think
about the fight. And the methods they’re willing to use.”
“I see,” Roy says. They aren’t killers. He doesn’t disapprove, both morally and because it
lessens the likely internal dangers his own team faces. There’s a difference between killing
someone and making decisions likely to get people killed, however, and Albus has already
proven himself dangerous in that regard. “We also, of course, would prefer to take every
target alive, so that they may face appropriate legal justice.” Roy smiles thinly. “Which
brings us to the larger problem. What are you going to do, when your state falls?”
Bones doesn’t look taken aback so much as skeptical. “When?”
“Lucius Malfoy heads a major political faction. Your minister, through either voluntary
complicity, coercion or sheer incompetence, acts to defend them. Someone is sending
unauthorized war weapons out into the field,” Roy says evenly. “If we are successful, all of
these will very suddenly no longer be in any position to hold office. That is quite a chunk of
power to remove from the board. Who takes charge, when these pieces are no longer in
play?”
Bones stares at him, not quite thrown but certainly not expecting this. “Dumbell door,” she
says. “I don’t see how it could be anyone else. He was stripped of his titles only recently, and
- for a situation that’s... abrupt…”
She’s starting to look wary for the first time, if not of Roy then at least the scope of the
situation he’s laid out for her. “Public opinion of him isn’t good right now, but if Voldemort is
exposed as returned, it’s likely to turn around quick.” Her expression is settling fast, going
evaluating, considering. “I don’t see who else it’d be,” she repeats, somewhat more slowly.
“If not dumbell door.”
“Then we’d best make sure he’s worthy of the responsibility,” Roy says calmly. “Even if
only to publicly name an appropriate successor before retiring. Peaceful transition of power is
preferable, after all.”
“He would step down,” Bones says, certain of it. “Albus has been offered minister before, he
didn’t want it. He only took mug Wump because it would’ve been him or Carrow and the
entire Carrow family are nightmares of the first degree… it’s elections anyway. But you’re
right. Whoever he endorses would be the shoe in. Especially if it’s clear that Voldemort really
is back.”
“And who would he support as a successor?” Roy asks.
Now that’s a politician’s face. Bones eyes him, thoughtful frown stilled just enough that he
can tell she’s pinned it on to do her thinking behind it. “Historically,” she says, with just a
trace of self-aware irony, “many heads of the department of magical law enforcement have
gone on to head the ministry.”
How convenient. “And you are already part of his private organization,” Roy says idly. “So
you tell me, Director. Do I need to do anything about Albus?”
Bones appraises him for a long moment, and Roy watches the numbers tick into place for her.
Accepting foreign aid always opens you to debt, even if you’re asking a childhood friend;
she’s already running that risk, and it’s not a small one. One day Olivier might ask for
something in return, and given how little their societies know each other, Bones has no way
to predict what that might be.
And Roy is not Olivier, and what he’s proposing is a little more complete than just arresting
her death eaters.
But she is a politician, not just a police chief. “No,” she finally says. “Not at the moment.”
Roy inclines his head in a very slight bow. “Then that is your answer. Though I would like to
say that as charming as this excursion has been so far, we cannot stay long, and I do not
intend to make the trip again. The intent is to take care of what needs to be done the first time
around.”
“I see.” Bones regards him a moment longer, then turns to watch the distant blue shape of
Riza nearing the top of the tree. “I wouldn’t want to see anyone… hurt,” she says carefully.
“Neither do I,” Roy says with complete honesty, though of course what he wants has so little
to do with anything she might as well be commenting on the color of her underwear. “You
don’t have control of the press now, but as I said, if we are successful I imagine a lot of
opportunities become open to you very quickly. Albus was offered the minister position last
time for defeating Voldemort? Well, this time it will be you. Given our methods, it’s unlikely
that keeping the results quiet will be the problem, but feel free to compile a list of likely
reporters and prepare a discreet tipoff for when the time comes.”
Here Bones gives him a disbelieving eyebrow. “Amestris doesn’t want credit?”
Roy eyebrows her right back. “Why should we care what gets printed about us in a foreign
newspaper? We are a very distant country, after all. To anyone who matters, our work will
speak for itself.”
And if Fullmetal manages to build a scalable magic off switch without accidentally creating
some kind of doomsday machine, it’ll speak quite loudly indeed. No, Roy’s not worried
about the wizards forgetting what Amestrisans will do.
Bones’ expression has taken on a tinge of a new dog owner who has brought their mastiff
home, fitted it with its shiny new spiked collar and is only now realizing the size of the shits
she is going to have to shovel. “This is what I get for asking Livvie for help, isn’t it.”
Roy gives her a look of polite surprise. “Did you expect something different?”
“I don’t know what I expected. And I’m certainly getting it.” Bones blows out a breath and
fixes him with a look. “If that’s your way of things…”
“I am here to secure an open line of communication between our countries, Director. That
works best when there’s a stable, competent government on both sides,” Roy says. “I don’t
particularly care who’s in charge, so long as they pick up when Amestris calls and aren’t too
busy fending off their own homegrown homicidal necromancers.”
“Bloody mercenary as anything, the lot of you,” Bones mutters, but she sounds approving.
“Well. That’s that, then, isn’t it. All that’s left is to actually do it.”
Yes. Installing the police chief of a local cult to the highest office in Cult Government. Good
grief.
“So.” Bones jerks her chin at the charred remains Riza swept out of the dirt circle. “Think
you can kill a dementer with that?”
It’s Roy’s turn to narrow his eyes. The dementers. Fullmetal had been genuinely rattled by
those things. Like the Gate, but wrong. If Edward thinks anything about that nightmare place
can be right then Roy does not want to find out what wrong is. The fact that Fullmetal
handled them easily enough doesn’t negate that they don’t know what the actual cause of
death was, and thermite may well turn out to be the only effective method. If it’s heat alone
Roy can create oxyhydrogen for fuel, but it’s not the standard array on his gloves and pretty
much every option for upping his firepower comes with caveats in any case. He could split
the water in the air, if he wanted to waste a few seconds on the secondary reaction and also
introduce undirected hydrogen into what’s already an explosion, and hydrogen does not play
nicely with fucking anything on top of being slippery as hell to control.
And that’s aside from other environmental considerations, when it comes to combat. Roy
tends to shape his detonations around a fuel concentration with a single elemental chain that
carries the spark from his gloves acting as the fuse. They’re more difficult to establish on
windy or very humid days; they’re impossible in rain. Even if what he’s detonating is a solid
fuel source, the spark wouldn’t make it more than a few centimeters from his ignition point
due to the “fuse” constantly interrupted by falling droplets. Splitting water is an equal
headache when it’s rain, a million discrete droplets unconnected to each other and demanding
a serious alchemical drain just to connect the dots enough to split them into their component
molecules again.
Roy might have the destructive edge, but in some ways Fullmetal is far more reliable.
Atmospheric alchemy is temperamental. It’s not just gases, it’s everything suspended in them:
water vapor, particulates, all of it constantly in flux due to a dozen evolving factors:
temperature changes, objects in motion within the media, wind. The calculations are
guesswork by default, and it’s not enough to get the numbers right: once you’ve gotten ahold
of the elements, you have to move them where you need them to go. Exactly where you need
them to go. And it is dependent on the weather.
There was a time when Roy enjoyed the challenge. Well, now here’s something to challenge
him again. If the killswitch is nonviable the next logical power move will be to continue
killing these things the wizards consider unkillable and keep going until there aren’t any left,
and if it comes to mass exterminations of any sort it’s going to be Roy doing the work. Call it
a preventative measure.
To Bones, Roy shrugs. “If we encounter any more I will certainly try.”
“You may well might,” Bones says, grim. “In the last war, the dementers defected to
Voldemort en masse. They feed on fear and pain as well as souls, and he offers them enough
to choke. If he moves openly, they’ll likely flock to him again, and there’s nothing the
ministry can do to stop it.”
And to think Roy was almost starting to have a decent morning. “Yes,” he says delicately.
“It’s time we got into the details.”
Chapter End Notes
Roy:[peels human skin off] ahh thats better
bones: ok yeah that’s about what i expected
Chapter 65
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The place called Diagonally turns out to be a tightly crowded shopping district made up
entirely of aggressively narrow streets and alarmingly tilted buildings. Maes shouldn’t have
bothered worrying they’d stand out; when the entire troop of them exits the bar they’d fireteleported into they slot quite neatly into the throng of families who apparently also consider
shopping to be an all-hands-on-deck no-man-left-behind experience. The noise level is a
charming blend of hooting children and yelling animals, many of which appear to be equally
off leash.
It’s very… quaint. If Gracia were here she would smile very indulgently and find something
kind to say about the charm of cobblestones or crown molding or whatever. Unsafe
construction, unsecured animals… yes, this place definitely looks a lot like the time Maes
took Elysia to the traveling craft fair with an impending migraine.
They spend the first hour or so as retinue to the school shopping trip, Bill playing tourguide
with Tonks providing asides as he points out ice cream and book stores and ‘potions
ingredients’. Maes relegates all details of chocolate frogs and racing brooms to the spacious
mental folder labeled DRINK HEAVILY and dedicates himself to being wowed by the
rundown so Jones and Arget can pay attention to any potential irregularities in the crowd.
Given the circumstances, they’ll need all the help they can get. A shrieking child careens into
Jones’ legs and goes zooming off on a literal broomstick, hovering a few feet off the ground;
an owl causes a temporary halt when it flaps off its perch and lands directly on Arget’s
terrified shoulder. This provides great entertainment to their wizard retinue, especially the
teenagers, and Maes mentally tacks on extra days to Jones’ and Argets’ already sizeable leave
allowances.
It’s good field work experience for them, at any rate. Not sure how applicable any of the
specifics will be, but throwing people in the deep end is a time-honored cornerstone of
Amestrisan higher education. Maes is pretty sure most of the Order thinks of them as capable
but deprived peasants come down from some distant mountain to find the world contains
things much more complicated than mud huts and hitting each other with sticks. They were
surprised and dismayed in a not very invested way at the revelation that there are no wizards
in Amestris, and seem to think it quite appropriate to regard them with a tint of good-natured
pity every time something like their lack of possessed paintings or flying broomsticks comes
up. Maes isn’t sure it’ll help to inform them that their estimated total population is less than
the student body of the high school by his house in Central. The non-wizard people around
here are the ones with roads and cities and cars and trains and radios, and the wizards seem to
regard them with the benevolent pathos moneyed couples give plucky orphan children from a
country they’re not interested in adopting from.
Well, what did he expect. It’s a scale problem, and cults are known to be insular and isolating,
it’s practically a defining trait. They aren’t stupid, they’re just people. Maes would love to
explore the broader society if they weren’t all under an invisibly ticking countdown courtesy
of yet another aspiring genocidal entity with philosopher’s stones and a god complex;
figuring out how this wizard/non-wizard divide came to be would doubtless give insights into
the way they operate now.
But as things are they have no cultural experts and no time for the holistic approach. Maes
casually asks Tonks about her work, trying to see if the beat cop ground level view
corroborates the top down one; Bones had said there’d been no uptick in arrests, no ramp up
in executions or judicial irregularities, but information isn’t intelligence until it’s verified by
an outside source. Tonks does happily report that nothing seems out of the usual, but it turns
out when she says she’s junior she means very junior, not even assigned a division yet. Then
some more conversation reveals to Maes that their police department doesn’t even have
departments, and he has to downshift again.
“Well, there’s hit wizards,” Bill says. “But most of them got killed off in the first war - you
know who targeted a lot of them first. And with the defense against the dark arts curse on the
hog warts professorship, it’s been, well. I don’t think the numbers have ever gotten back to
what they were.”
“Right now it’s mostly a double list,” Tonks says. “Some Aurors are on call as hit wizards, if
they’re needed, but since they’re really only necessary for apprehending dark wizards there
hasn’t been much call for them. They train and all, but all the calls I can think of in the past
year were to help deal with magical creatures. Or Azkaban security. Moody was a hit
wizard,” she adds. “Back before he lost his leg and went back to being a regular Auror.”
“You’re going to get training for undercover work, right?” Bill asks her.
“Yeah, but. Well. With one thing and another… doesn’t help much that I’m serious black’s
cousin,” she says, somewhat rueful but not with any resentment Maes can see. “And it does
mean I can help out more with the Order, since right now I mostly get assigned as security
escort for visiting officials and things.”
That does make sense, for the profile of a police officer who would join an aspirationally
paramilitary vigilante group. Family member wrongly imprisoned, suffering career
repercussions at work for something out of her control; that makes sense. Bones, too, has
ample motive to be spurning the state despite her very senior position: she’d lost her whole
family to these terrorists, Olivier told Maes, all of them save her niece.
The group splits when the children go for what Maes understands to be uniform fittings, so
he sends Havoc and Jones to stay on them and continue to try and see if anyone’s following
them; Bill and Tonks offer to get a drink while they wait. There’s some confusion where they
assume that means a takeaway coffee or something but turns out that no, the wizards mean
sitting down at a dim bar at half past noon and ordering something called butter beer.
This turns out to be nonalcoholic, after an explanation that they are, in fact, on duty, and
drinking is officially frowned upon in the Amestrisan armed forces unless you’re actively
bleeding out. Arget is braver than she looks and also finished her cadet deployment in Briggs,
where they dump sheep lard into thrice-boiled tea to keep the chill away, so she gamely
agrees to try some. Maes sticks to water. The Armstrong family doctors who had kept him
alive via a long and complicated regimen of tube feeding had made it very clear what would
happen to him if he tried to consume anything not on their approved list. He’s pushing things
as it is, eating and drinking in not one but two foreign countries not a year after he’s been
allowed solids again, but there comes a time where a man has to say fuck it and there is only
so much even Gracia, culinary genius that she, could do to mitigate the mushiness of mush.
Nourishing, healthful, medically very necessary much, but still… mush.
Maes isn’t reckless enough to haul off and eat five-spice liver and double-fried catfish and
bomb his digestive tract over a craving, but on dark nights he does worry he’s developing a
fetish for spiced crackers that’s starting to get upsettingly sexual. Better not try his luck by
throwing any wizard beer into the mix.
He trusts in Al’s filtering array on their inner elbows to take care of anything too dire, at
least, and after some negotiation Bill and Tonks agree to sit on one of the few rickety tables
outside, backs to the wall but with a clear view of all passerby.
“Oh, and there’s Gringotts,” Bill says as they sit down, pointing at a big white columned
building across the street. “Main branch. I’m not there too often, really - they don’t need
curse breakers here much, they prefer to process what they can on site where it’s found - but
it’s headquarters.”
“Perfect,” Maes says, deciding they may as well get to the point. “Let’s talk money.”
Bill gives him a politely wary look, glancing at the butter beers he’d paid for. “Do you…
need some…?”
“Oh, no,” Maes assures, figuring it’s probably best not to bring up that between Ed and Al
they can have their own fully operating mint set up in under an hour. “Not mine. Our dear
associates on the other other side of the law. With those charming tattoos of the skulls and
snakes and such.”
Bill and Tonks casually glance around, and Arget follows suit, somewhat more discreetly.
“Go on,” Bill says, no less wary.
“Any operation requires funding, yes?” Maes says. “Food, bribes, equipment, wages - even
wizards have expenses.”
“Well… if they’re run like the order, maybe not,” Tonks says, brows meeting. “Everyone’s on
their own coin, more or less. And Mal - many of the, uh, group, are rich. Or their families
are.”
“So who do we bribe to get their assets frozen?” Maes says reasonably. “Or at least seize
their financial records.” Getting ahold of that is the first step to breaking the terrorists’ supply
lines and starving them of resources: if you have to directly engage an enemy, it’s better to
face a hungry, evicted and underequipped one. “We know some names. We also know the
state is fully compromised, but that doesn’t preclude us from working unofficially.
Connecting on an individual level, as it were.”
Bill and Tonks both look warily uncomprehending. “We don’t need their accounts to be
officially frozen,” Maes clarifies, deciding that directness and small words are going to spare
them all a lot of suffering. “If we can introduce red tape, holdups, technical difficulties - use
anything that would interrupt their cash flow. Throw anything that works. Usually that takes
some favors or a bribe. You know the industry - what’s likely to be the going price?”
Bill, whose expression has been going significantly more disbelieving, says “You want to
bribe the goblins?”
That’s very much a you want to put your dick WHERE? kind of voice. “Goblins,” Maes
repeats. “Ahaha. This is local slang for bankers, yes? A charming euphemism?”
“What?” Bill says. “Oh, no. No, that’s… Merlin.” He looks like he wants to rub his temples.
“No werewolves, no animate paintings, no house elves in... Amestris. Right. No goblins
either. Look - the goblin nation is… they’re like people, they just look different, and they
have their own ways and their own magic. They run the banks. They make incorruptible
currency and they provide neutral ground for deals and vows and things. And they run the
bank.”
Like people, Maes notes. “Incorruptible currency?”
“Can’t be melted down,” Bill explains. “It’s protected with their magic. Can’t be replicated
with wizard magic either.”
Something to mention to Ed and Al, then, Maes notes instead of internally screaming about
goblins , in case they do have to end up minting. They’ll probably be able to figure it out.
“Just one bank?” Arget asks, looking like she already knows the answer and is grimly staving
off flashbacks of the discovery of one newspaper.
“Since the goblins handle the banking… yeah,” Bill tells her. “They’d hardly make two.”
“So it’s considered a foreign nation entirely? Not at all subject to your own state?” Maes
asks.
“Well… after the goblin rebellions there’s been a kind of… agreement,” Bill says, turning his
own butter beer glass but watching Maes with a thoughtful line between his brows. “They
weren’t able to pass anything formal in the Wizengamot, but this got everyone to stop hexing
each other and got the banks reopened, so it’s held as a compromise so far. The goblins value
gold, see? And precious metals and stones. And witches and wizards need to use money, so
the agreement is the goblins control the currency and the ministry doesn’t interfere in their
affairs. Not everyone likes it, and there’s still disagreements over wands and things, of
course, but. It works.”
It’s not exactly a political history briefing, but it’ll do. “Goblins don’t like wizards much, I
take it,” Maes says.
Tonks snorts as Bill quirks the side of his mouth. “You could say that.” His expression returns
to seriousness. “I don’t know that… your proposal… would work. Goblins take their security
very seriously, and they don’t trust humans at all. They protect their own first. They kept the
Lestrange and Carrow and black vaults open during the last war - didn’t want the dark lord
coming after them. Angering one of you know who’s followers is not a chance they’re likely
to take, not even for a price.”
“The Mal- the, uh, family we’re talking about has their own vault, and the goblins won’t stop
them accessing it, not so long as they have the right keys,” Tonks says. “A lot of the old pure
blood families have home vaults too, and Gringotts doesn’t control those at all.”
Maes hmms . “So they’re more responsive to threats.”
Bill and Tonks’ expressions slowly freeze, like a couple of penguins who’ve spotted the orca
circling the ice floe. “You want to threaten the goblins?” Tonks says.
“Threatening goblins is a bad idea,” Bill says, with the controlled alarm of a drill sergeant
who suddenly finds it necessary to explain exactly what happens when you pull the pin from
the grenade. “Very bad idea. Do not do it.”
“But it gets results,” Maes points out. “The terrorists retained access to their finances by
threatening violence. If giving a sweeter carrot won’t do it, we’ll just have to be the bigger
stick.”
They might not even need Roy, probably, if it comes to it. Ed killed those dementer things.
Depending on how the next couple of days go, Maes might need to make sure that news gets
around.
Bill’s looking at Maes like he also saw the brief mental image of Roy entering the bank
across the street and turning those nice clean white columns into soot-blasted rubble. “You
want to make the goblins more afraid of you than of Vol - you know who?”
Maes smiles, eyebrows up. “Well, no one really believes he’s back, don’t they? If they think
he’s dead, why shouldn’t we be the new scariest things come to town?”
“Threatening the goblins will start a war,” Bill says slowly and clearly, like a man determined
to exhaust all other options before he starts shouting.
“Did it start a war when Voldemort threatened them?” Maes asks, because it sounds like it
sure fucking didn’t.
“... No,” Bill has to admit, looking deeply pained and mildly horrified by this. Then he rallies
and says, “But there was already a war on.”
“So? So’s now,” Maes says. “That’s the whole reason we’re here, isn’t it? Just because it
hasn’t officially been declared by the state doesn’t mean people aren’t already dead.”
Bill doesn’t look like he likes that any, but also doesn’t have anything to dispute it with.
“There you go,” Maes says. “Besides, I’m sure it won’t come to that.” It’ll absolutely come
to that. In negotiations Roy doesn’t even start shopping for carrots until he already has his
hands full of great big sticks. Haha.
Maes grins at the wizards, deciding that further conversation on the finance topic can wait
until they’re in a more secure location and everyone has calmed down. “Never mind that,
though. Tell me, what do people do for fun in these wizardly parts?”
Bill and Tonks just stare at him for a while. “We’re not going to go off threatening anyone
now,” Maes assures them, because it looks like they need to hear that for their cognitive
processes to continue. “That sort of thing takes preparation. Research. Some of which you
can help us with right now, actually! So. Fun?”
“Well, there’s… going out for drinks,” Bill says slowly, like he fears revealing the existence
of bars will make them invade the nearest dive and start threatening the bartender. Maes
sometimes wishes he were less familiar with this as the typical response to exposure to an
Amestrisan military officer.
“People play Quidditch,” Tonks says, equally wary. “And just fly their brooms sometimes.
When the weather’s right. Statute of secrecy and all.”
“What kind of bars?” Arget asks, valiantly trying to pick up the slack that normally Jones
would be handling. “Is there… cabaret, and that sort of thing?”
It’s blunter than Maes would like, but he hasn’t got any correction for her; they have an
objective to meet here. Usually he’d prefer to let conversation spool out more naturally,
building the relationship as much as gathering information - you want the mark to offer up
the information of their own accord, no direct questions to trip any alarm bells, nothing
obvious that they can point out and say that’s what they were fishing for - but they just don’t
have the time.
“There are plays,” Bill offers, like it’s a sacrificial goat thrown to the wolves so that the bars
might have a chance to get away. “There’s a theater down the way, past flourish and blots.
Are you looking for something else to do? I mean, I don’t think Mum and the others are
going to be much longer, but. We could get ice cream.”
Arget opens her mouth, but is clearly at a loss as to how to steer the conversation the way
they need without her directly asking where people go to see some tits around here. Well,
they aren’t going to get anywhere at this rate. “Bill, I’m going to be frank with you here,”
Maes says, placing his hands on the table to lean forward and look him sincerely in the eyes.
“We’re talking about prostitutes.”
Bill’s eyes widen, and not in a promising way. “What?”
“Sex workers,” Maes clarifies, in the meager hope that this is nothing more than another silly
translation oopsie. “Body artists. Carnal professionals.” Maes can see on Bill's face a flicker
of hope that he's talking about creative dropouts who do unconventional things with paint and
nudity, but it dies at the mention of ‘carnal’. “You know. Hookers. We need to talk to some.
Ideally the most popular ones.”
“What?” Bill repeats, much more squeakily.
Is this one some kind of virgin? Maes abandons Bill and turns to Tonks. “If not most popular
any bigger house will do. Do you know where the largest establishment is around here?”
But Tonks just gives an uncomfortable half-smile, like she’s unsure whether to laugh or not.
“Is this like with the hair? It’s, you know. Hard to tell when you lot are joking.”
“Haha, yes,” Maes agrees, because that had been hilarious. “Not this time, though. Look, you
don’t have to come with us, but we’de appreciate at least getting directions.”
“To…” Bill trails off, faint.
“A brothel,” Maes says helpfully.
“Here?” Tonks says incredulously.
“Well yes,” Maes says, smiling. He’s starting to get a little testy. “This city is the capital, yes?
And we are in the wizard community’s downtown?”
“You want to find prostitutes in diagonally?” Bill says, strangled, just as Tonks says, “That’s
illegal.”
Ohhhhh boy. “What’s illegal?” Maes says, feeling his good old friend Impending Doom settle
a friendly arm around his shoulders.
“Prostitution,” Tonks half-hisses, glaring up at him: she’s starting to go red, and there’s
anger in the blush, not just embarrassment.
Maes can’t unpack all of that now, though, because - what? “How is that illegal?”
Tonks just stares back at him like he asked why it’s not okay to scalp puppies. “Some…
religions don’t allow for it?” Arget tries uncertainly, glancing at Maes.
“You can’t,” Bill starts, keeping his voice down, then seems too uncomfortable to continue
whatever that thought was going to be. “It’s not - look, it’s not religious, just - it’s - you’re
not supposed to do that sort of thing.”
“What, have sex?” Maes says, momentarily too incredulous to be polite. “How do you
reproduce? Do you find each other in the cabbage patch?”
“No, that’s not - just. It’s… it’s not right, to pay for it,” Bill finishes lamely, though now he’s
started to go red too.
“How are we even talking about this,” Tonks says, red to her ears and looking deeply
aggrieved about it.
Maes feels a thousand years old, and not only because these two grown adults are acting like
fourteen year olds being asked about their crush. “I see,” he says generously. “It’s a cultural
thing! I completely understand. So how is this enforced? Are all kinds of sex work
forbidden?”
Bill stares at him like he’s just asked if he personally prefers anal. “I don’t think we’ve got…
kinds,” he says after a long moment, like he’s trying to be tactful to someone he’s not sure
deserves it.
“Prostitution and soliciting prostitution are illegal,” Tonks says coldly, clearly trying to
recover her composure despite her still-flaming cheeks. “You aren’t going to find any in
diagonally.”
“Do the police get involved often?” Maes asks, because if they conduct raids then they’ll at
least have a general idea of where the brothels are.
“Aurors don’t really get called out for that sort of thing,” Tonks says flatly, the redness
definitely now edging more anger than embarrassment. “It doesn’t much come up. If
someone calls in a tip on someone doing that sort of thing they get summoned to court and
fined.”
Maes frowns. “How?” Sex workers take on professional identities for plenty of reasons, and
he’d imagine it’s only more necessary when the work is illegal; Maes hadn’t learned Gracia’s
real name until that junior officer party at Madame Chris’, where Roy, with the glassy look of
a man parasailing over his own personal hell, had taken Maes aside and said listen if I tell you
something about me and you keep it to yourself I can get you in the champagne room for free
with Trixi. “Is this like tracking the wands?”
Tonks frowns back. “What?”
“How do they get summoned? Is it by name? If someone reports this as a crime, how do they
get the identities of the people involved?” Because “called in as a tip” usually means some
annoyed civilian trying to get back at their neighbor. Policing sex work in general sounds like
a shitshow; if hearsay is enough to convict someone of the act - though, aha, they have their
truth telling potion, don’t they. If the confessions are obtained and considered valid that way,
then there’s no need for a trial: either you did it or you didn’t, according to the magic juice.
“It’s usually a relative,” Tonks says, even more coldly. “Or someone who recognizes them.”
Good grief. Maes briefly exchanges looks with Arget, who looks just as blankly dismayed as
he feels. That must be one hell of a cultural taboo. Sex work has never been strictly
respectable even in Amestris - where, as the Cretans say, everything is legal and if it’s not
you’ll find it anyway - but it’s not treated like this. Everyone visits the party districts sooner
or later, for the shows and dancers if not for the more expensive offerings, and the police tend
to keep their interventions to bar fights and emergency calls; every brothel Maes has ever
been to keeps bouncers, usually ex-soldiers, and they aren’t shy about dragging a client to the
local lockup if someone gets rowdy. The cops can get lazy because of that, knowing private
security is always on the scene, and as usual soldiers and police get along like rats and
snakes, but nobody wants to piss a brothel off too badly. They blacklist.
That’s long been why Roy’s network is so useful: straddling every social class, it’s the trough
at which every horse can drink, so to speak. And outlawing something doesn’t mean people
won’t buy, sell and use it. It’ll just likely be harder to find the tenderloin district here. It’s not
like brothels are usually in the best neighborhoods in Amestris either, especially in more
provincial towns or those with the more ascetic religious sects; if sex work is outlawed
wholesale, that probably means brothels have followed in the footsteps of all other criminal
enterprise and either set up shop the worst areas or started operating under a front. Most
likely both.
Maes, Jones and Havoc likely won’t be able to just come in for a drink and some company as
prospective clients, either. He could theoretically send Arget; Jones is one of Maes’ best
officers because he can be at ease in any company and situation, and Arget is often his field
partner because she’d probably feel socially awkward alone in her own bedroom. In some
cases, though, sending in someone obviously inexperienced achieves the objective more
effectively than a seasoned expert. Anybody looking at Marilee Arget in civvies is going to
think tax accountant, not cop, and given they don’t even have a military here it’s even more
unlikely anyone will think soldier.
“Listen,” Bill says, bringing Maes back to the conversation in time to catch his sideways
glance at Tonks. “You can’t just ask people where to find prostitutes.”
“Well, we can’t exactly look them up ourselves,” Maes says, because while accommodating
local cultural norms is often more a matter of survival than politeness, they are here to do a
job. Taboo or not, they still need information. “The translation rocks don’t extend to
writing.”
“Still,” Bill says, red-eared but dedicated to his cause. “It’s inappropriate.”
Maes reevaluates the leather pants, earring and aura of determined embarrassment regarding
Tonks and mentally shifts Bill closer to the Ed Elric category: dresses to bite but can’t help
the occasional fits of sweetness. Usually misguided. Tonks doesn’t look like she needs any
help setting her jaw in a ask-again-at-your-own-peril angle.
Then Bill glances over Maes’ shoulder, expression immediately cracking into relief. “There
they are,” he says. “Looks like they’re all done. Come on, we can see if they need help
carrying anything.”
Molly Weasley and the teenagers are all headed towards them down the street, looking like
they don’t need any help at all given plenty of their purchases are apparently hovering
weightless alongside them. It doesn't stop Bill and Tonks fleeing the table and the
conversation like they think Maes and Arget are going to rip their clothes off and demand
they all lick cherry syrup off each other. Maes sighs and pushes back from the table more
slowly, partly because of existential dismay and partly because there’s a lot of scar tissue
across his chest and abdomen these days that dictates what he can do and how fast. “We’ve
learned something new, at least.”
“They think we’re sex maniacs, don’t they,” Arget says sadly.
“Very likely,” Maes acknowledges. “Can’t always plan for unexpected cultural nuances.” He
sighs. “Let’s hope Jones and Havoc haven’t been experiencing anything equally
educational.”
The entire group adjourns down a quieter and even more cramped side street with a dead end,
where the teenagers start shrinking down their stacks of books and unpleasantly organicsmelling lumpy packages. “Eye of newt,” one of the twins explains as they edge past with
their noses wrinkled. “Got to have it for potions class. Otherwise Snape will try to kick us out
of class and the order.”
What a charming reminder that the ex-terrorist is also a schoolteacher as well as a comrade
vigilante. “Any tails?” Maes asks Jones and Havoc, not lowering his voice to any suspicious
whispering but angling the conversation towards privacy, shifting his shoulders to face away
from the wizards.
“None that we saw,” Jones says. “A few people stopped and said hello to them in the shops,
but they could identify everybody who watched them without coming up.” He pulls a face
slightly. “Not that it might matter here, with their body snatching toenail juice.”
Havoc shudders with feeling. Maes doesn’t blame him. The explanation of how their poly
juice potion worked went directly past Maes’ DRINK HEAVILY cabinet and straight into the
WORST SHIT I’VE EVER HEARD trophy shelf. “We can debrief the wizards properly when
we get back, I suppose. We’re going to need more information in any case. Our next move
needs some strategizing.”
Jones frowns slightly, glancing between him and Arget. “We’re not…”
Maes sighs. “Sex work is illegal in this society.”
“What?” Jones says, blinking.
“What do you mean illegal,” Havoc says blankly, as Molly Weasley does a sharp double take
at the edge of Maes’ vision. Ah. He didn’t exactly mean to have this become a group
discussion, but with seven kids it’s unsurprising she’s got the ears of a bat and the shithitting-fan radar of manure farmer in windmill country.
“I mean it’s against the law,” Maes tells Havoc, because they might as well get this out of the
way, and despite the sudden dead silence and proliferation of bugeyed looks on every single
teenager Maes highly doubts he’s sharing anything they don’t already know. They aren’t
exactly children. “So our plans have changed slightly.”
“Wait, but,” Havoc says, looking like he just got invited to his own goldfish’s funeral: ready
to mourn, but mostly just bewildered as to who organized this and why. “Prostitution?
Illegal?”
One of the redheaded children makes a hnee? noise. “Cultural misunderstanding, cultural
misunderstanding!” Bill says quickly, stepping forward and waving his hands between his
mother and Maes like he’s trying to do a nothing to see here. “He doesn’t mean - that, he
means - er -”
“What do I mean?” Maes asks, half annoyed, half honestly curious as to what Bill might
come up with. “Do you have something instead of prostitution?”
“I think the translation stones may be acting up again,” Bill says just slightly too loudly,
making hard eye contact with Maes of the you are NOT HELPING variety. “You know,
maybe we should give those things a break, cast that translation spell loop in used instead -“
Okay, Maes can understand not necessarily wanting to discuss hookers in front of your own
mother, but Bill is acting like she’s going to snap and start chasing them with a chainsaw if
she hears the trigger word prostitution one more time. “We just need to know where they
are,” he says. “I doubt we’ll have time for a visit today.” Especially if it turns out they are
being followed and the brothels aren’t part of any standard entertainment district.
“Why are we looking for - oh. For the chief,” Havoc finishes glumly. “This is why you made
me change my shirt, isn’t it.”
“Completely illegal?” Jones says doubtfully, brows furrowed. “All of it?”
“It could work in our favor,” Maes tells them, trying to orient back around to the immediately
relevant. “Criminal activity tends to cluster together. It’ll probably be more difficult to access
them as a resource, given they’ll be taking steps to disguise their business, but given we have
inroads to the justice department it’s possible we may be able to cut them a deal. Indemnity,
potentially expunged past criminal records, that sort of thing. Hmm.”
He notices the variety of expressions coming his way from the wizard contingent, and it
occurs that the past ten minutes of conversation could, actually, sound a lot like they were
looking for a titty party at eleven in the morning on a Tuesday. “We aren’t here for
entertainment,” he says, because it seems like this is going to need explicit clarification
before any of them are going to be able to continue. “We’re looking for information
regarding our work. People talk. Sex workers listen.”
“Oh,” Bill says, looking massively relieved. “Oh. It’s just - they’re just looking for
information,” he pronounces, not quite in the direction of his mother. Molly Weasley
continues to stare at Maes like he just suggested they all go have an orgy in the nearest park,
so he’s not sure how much of a dent that’s making. They really don’t like talking about sex
around here.
“What kind of information?” one of the twins asks, deeply fascinated, and immediately his
mother raps out “George Weasley!”
“The information we’re all looking for,” Maes says mildly. “Where you get sex you get all
kinds of other adult fun. Drink, drugs, gambling, arms smuggling. A little light terrorism.”
“Mister Hughes, they are children,” Molly Weasley says sharply. “We are not going to
discuss this here -”
“You’re the one who told Ron what a scarlet woman was, Mum,” says the formerly possessed
child - Ginny Weasley, looking up with well-crafted innocence at her mother. “It’s alright, we
already know all about that sort of thing.”
“That is not the same,” Molly Weasley barks, then visibly recalls that they are still technically
on a public street. “This is a discussion for later. All of you, pack up your things, we’re
heading back to Gr- home.”
All the teenagers and especially the twins continue to look rabidly curious - unsurprising,
really; forbidding a thing only makes teens want it more, and sex work is outright illegal here
- but they do resume shrinking their purchases. Tonks, though, blows out a breath and looks
directly at Maes; she meets his eyes squarely despite a tint of red rising in her cheeks again,
this time seeming more embarrassed than angry. “Sorry,” she says, apparently sincere. “It’s
just, well. Bit of a sore subject. People like to make jokes and things, when you’re a
Metamorphagus.”
“Whoa, really?” That’s Ginny Weasley again, pausing with a pungent smelling sack in hand
to stare up at Tonks like she’s just admitted to some secret celebrity status. “You’re a
Metamorphagus?”
“Yeah, didn’t anyone mention?” Tonks glances around, and all the teenagers shake their
heads, magic things paused mid-shrink.
“What’s a Metamorphagus,” Maes asks, because in this culture shock ping pong match of an
op it seems it’s now the Amestrisan serve to warily ask what the hell they’re talking about.
“Oh,” Tonks says, the redness starting to creep higher on her cheeks. She looks between
Maes and Arget, looking slightly sheepish. “Sorry, I - thought you knew that, it’s why I -
anyway. It just means I can do this,” she says, and her face -
- changes.
Maes goes cold. His sleeve knife is in his hand. Not enough. He doesn’t have a gun in easy
reach, not in civilian dress. He has to - he -
There’s no red light. No crackle. The woman’s face warps, but it’s not the same. Clothes, hair
- didn’t change. Body didn’t change. Just her face. Her nose. No one’s panicking.
“Mister Hughes? Are you alright?”
His breath skips from his lungs and then comes right back doubletime. Shapeshifter. He -
they have them here. He knows this. They were warned. This is not new information. Not
new enough to draw on, civilians be damned. Jones - Jones, Arget. They’re right there, hands
on their holsters, watching the perimeter. Watching the woman.
“Colonel Hughes?”
Shapeshifter. Again. Maybe he did die in that phone booth and everything since has just been
one big joke of an afterlife, bestowed by some real comedian of a divinity. People’s souls
getting sucked out, disembodied children, homunculi… his life used to be normal, full of war
and genocide and corruption up to the neck. Alright, that all turned out to be all about the
damn freak superalchemy shit too, but it’s not like war and corruption and so forth are
unique. Plenty of other countries have those. It’s just Amestris that got the honor of hosting
the garnish of all that other extra freak shit, and for some spectacularly stupid reason when
fleeing for her life Grangran decided that that’s where settling down would be a great idea.
“Colonel Hughes?”
It’s Jones, one hand still tucked inside his jacket on his sidearm, expression carefully not too
concerned. “Sir?”
Maes inhales, exhales. “Just surprised!” He sounds too bright, too sharp, but his expression is
- under control. “We don’t have that in Amestris either!” Not unless things have gone to
absolute shit. “And only you can do that? What did you say your species was called?”
“I’m a Metamorphagus,” Tonks says, now sporting an entirely new very hooked nose,
looking a little concerned by Maes’ smile but not enough for him to give a shit. “It’s not a
species, some wizards and witches are just born like that. It’s - fairly rare?”
“Oh good!” Maes says, meaning it with every still-vibrating cell of his body. He has to tell
Roy, only he can’t tell Roy, because Roy will wear this girl’s skin as a warning. No, he can
communicate this correctly, he can share relevant intelligence in a way that won’t lead to fire
and screaming. “So you’re one of those shapeshifters we’ve been told about. We weren’t
aware there were any among your group.”
“Well, I wouldn’t really call Metamorphaguses shapeshifters,” Tonks says, but she looks
uncomfortable and the teenagers are all giving each other deeply unpromising glances. “I can
only change my hair and face, really. Nothing big.”
“Amazing!” Maes says, turning his grin to Molly Weasley. “You know, you’re right. This
really isn’t a conversation for the street! Let’s all head back, shall we?” He needs to get his
back against a wall right fucking now, and preferably one where Roy can find him. “We’ve
got lots to talk about.”
Chapter End Notes
maes: when i said “where the freaks at” this is NOT what i meant
Chapter 66
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“So what’s our plan Z?” Al says. “What are we going to do if this doesn’t work, and
simulating cardiac arrest doesn’t either?”
“Well, we’re not killing the kid,” Ed says irritably, flopping back on his elbows onto the dirt.
“Are you seeing a reason plans alpha gamma delta wouldn’t work?”
“I’m just considering the options.” Al sits more carefully, because his joints aren’t always
happy with him and it’s better to take things easy when he has the opportunity. “We’re
working with a lot of unknowns and a lot of unpredictables. If the testing doesn’t go like we
think, we’de better have something we can start work on right away as backup.”
“Ugh. Ya.” Ed sits up off his elbows and puts his palms out like he’s weighing a couple of
pineapples. “Okay. So. We got two souls -”
“Two qi signatures,” Al corrects.
“- ya, double qi, okay. And we have the physical anchor for both.”
“A human body.”
“Right. So if we set aside human transmutation and the whole thing where we’re talking
about fucking around with souls again -”
“- it’s just a question of finding what else there is that can detach a human soul from a body
anchor.” Al sighs. “Which brings us right back around to my simulating mortal shock idea.
What else could we try?”
“Beardy and the others talked about their lord wingwang splitting his own soul,” Ed says
consideringly. “And Hohenheim’s fuckin’ stunt double split off bits of himself to make the
homunculi. The potential to separate is there.”
“If the homunculi weren’t just corrupted Xerxesian souls,” Al counters, because while he
personally is reserving judgment on the feasibility of true soul splitting due to lack of
evidence he does agree that Ed’s theory on the homunculi’s origins has merit.
“Ya, but if everybody in question is starting with more than one soul in the body,” Ed says,
shaping a kind of weird swimming-squid gesture with both hands, “which the kid is, the
process is proven a couple times over.”
“Which just brings us right back as to how the separation even works,” Al points out. “If we
can’t figure out how to access a soul without committing human transmutation and paying a
toll, the question of whether we can split one is moot.”
Ed scowls but lets his squid hands drop, blowing out a long breath of agreement. He stares
out at his boots, not looking at Al. “What you did for me. Could you?”
Al settles back as well, exhaling no less heavily. He’d been half expecting this to come up
ever since soul talk started, but Ed really doesn’t like bringing up any time he feels somebody
sacrificed for him. “I don’t know.”
He really doesn’t. When Hawkeye came to visit them in Resembool a few weeks after they
returned from their first trip to Xing, they’d had no idea she was there for anything more than
a country weekend to say hello, and Al definitely had no idea that the very next day he’d be
performing soul surgery again on his big brother.
“I don’t think it’d be the same situation,” he says aloud. “With us, it wasn’t really… I wasn’t
accessing your qi.”
That’s not anywhere near the whole of it, but he likes talking about this about as much as Ed
does, even if for different reasons. Al taps his fingers on his cane, thinking. “What about
what you did for Pride?”
Ed huffs. “What, unzip his entire corporeal existence like a fanny pack and let all his extra
souls spill out? Dunno. He tried to unzip me first.” He knocks his boots together, thinking.
“Pride was already an energy medium. I had to transmute myself to be able to access him on
the same level. The Hairy kid’s just a kid. And I’d have to establish some kind of connection.
Which would be pretty fucky given Pride established one by trying to eat me, and if I try it
here and it goes wrong that kid’s kaput. He’s not even an alchemist.”
Al nods, because that’s more or less the shape of what he was thinking, too. “So we’re stuck
on cardiac arrest for now.”
“Which should work fine if the array doesn’t. If he dies a little bit, and everything detaches
like we want it to - the original soul is gonna try and get back into the body on its own,” Ed
says.
“If it even is a piece of soul,” Al says wearily. “I keep telling you, it’s qi, and not like any
kind I’ve ever seen before -”
“Okay, well, temporarily murdering him will unstick the qi too, won’t it? Don’t start a
terminology argument again.”
“You being unable to spell is not a terminology argument -”
“I spell fine,” Ed lies baldly. “My point is, if we’re coming up nothing, we’re coming up
nothing, and brainstorming this can wait. If we can’t shut off magic we have way bigger
problems with the wizards anyway, no matter how interesting the soul thing is.”
“What do we do if that doesn’t work?” Al says.
Ed blows his bangs out of his face. “Mustang. Hawkeye.” He’s huffy as a pug, but Al can tell
he’s genuinely unhappy with the idea. “And we run whatever support we can.”
Al looks down at his own knees. For all that Ed works directly with General Mustang and his
team, he’s not often in the field with them: they’re too senior to be the boots on the ground
and have been for a while. Ed’s rank is real enough, but he’s a specialist and a field agent -
Lieutenant Colonels run teams, coordinate projects, organize offices, but Ed’s bars are for
him to be able to request soldiers and supplies at local garrisons, give orders that’ll have to be
followed even if people don’t know him. Al’s pretty sure General Mustang is also using it to
hold the doom of an office job over Ed’s head, but it’s not much of a threat to have in reserve
given he did give Ed to Colonel Hawkeye.
Which in itself was a masterstroke of a move. General Mustang knew he would never get real
soldier’s obedience from Ed. So he sent Ed to someone who would.
Al hasn’t yet decided how he feels about that. He and Ed both know that you can’t always
think in an emergency, can’t second-guess; they know that soldiers obey orders for a reason,
that the trust that your team will obey is necessary to keep things glued together when a
situation gets fudged to schnitz. And Ed does trust Mustang. To a degree that worries Al,
sometimes: Ed came back to him, after all, to a dangerous career and a deadly political
ambition.
But Ed also has - well, Al’s seen a lot of people mistake it for problems with authority, but
it’s mostly just problems with idiots, assholes and men. Colonel Hawkeye is none of the
above, and she’s been a friend to them, the truest kind. To Ed especially. Al owes her for it,
no matter what she says, and there’s genuinely no one he’d rather have as his brother’s CO.
But above all else, Colonel Hawkeye is loyal to General Mustang, and to have Ed’s natural
defenses sidestepped so neatly - no matter how needed or even well-intentioned it may have
been - means Al needs to pick up the slack.
So far it hasn’t been necessary. Even with Void. Al had still been in Amestris then, prepping
for Xing and taking classes at Central U, and at the time all he’d known was Ed had been
pulled to the Cretan border for an alchemical emergency, stayed gone for ten days and called
once, to tell Al to try and find him an official dress uniform: for the next two weeks Ed would
be attending state funerals. And then he came home, and quietly told Al he’d helped kill
someone.
Al understood the situation. He listened to Ed outline what happened, what the Void
Alchemist was doing, what he’d done; he agreed with the assessment they’d made on the
ground. He also knew what Ed would be getting into, when he went back to the military.
General Mustang had told them both point blank - if you do this, Edward, it’ll be for real.
Because Ed hadn’t been a real soldier before, no matter what the papers said, and everyone
knew it; their way had been paved with exceptions. And Al knows exceptions were made
again, that Ed didn’t have to go through officer school or boot camp, that he only had to pass
the fitness test and recertify his State Alchemist license to be installed as a full Lieutenant
Colonel. He knows General Mustang is personally and professionally invested in keeping
Ed’s hands out of blood.
On the whole, the past three years of military work have been good for Ed. Al doesn’t worry
about leaving him alone anymore, when he has people who can back him up and talk him
down, who understand him. Al doesn’t want to interfere. But he also knows that General
Mustang and Colonel Hawkeye are both killers, and in the path he’s chosen it is inevitable
that sometimes Ed gets shoved right up against that fact face-first.
Al doesn’t know what it says about himself that when he looks at this head on, foremost
among the mitigating thoughts is at least they’re good at it.
“It probably won’t come to that,” he says aloud. “And with all of us here, even if the array
doesn’t work as we need it to I don’t doubt we’ll come up with something regardless.” Then,
because Ed’s started to go grim around the edges, he adds, “You and the General are two of
the most creative alchemists in Amestris.”
“Him? Mister one trick mustang? Mister plots all day but can’t pivot tactics under live fire
unless it’s literally to save his life -”
“He did transmute and ionize a noble gas with those letters last night,” Al says mildly. “The
precision was very impressive. Did he fake a diode, do you think?”
Ed snarls incoherently and takes off on a foaming tirade of insults interspersed with
transmutational analysis. Al lets the waves of invective wash over him for a bit before
interjecting, “You two haven’t bit each other yet.”
“Hah! Not for lack of trying! Did you fuckin’ hear his ass? Hair this, chimney face that! I
hate it when he goes all catty and won’t just fucking talk straight already.”
“Ah,” Al says, recognizing the problem. “You mean he’s stopped letting you provoke him
into shouting.”
“He hasn’t stopped! He just gets pissy and forgets how to communicate sometimes. Honestly,
some days he acts like he’s five.”
Al observes a moment of silence for his brother’s unparalleled self-awareness and
impeccably honed sense of irony. “You’re absolutely right, brother.”
Ed squints at him because he can tell Al’s telling the truth but also that he’s laughing at him,
so Al smiles and stands up, dusting off his pants. “I’m glad your communication styles work
so well together,” he tells Ed sincerely. “I have to go to the bathroom, so if the wizard
gentleman comes out with all his cursed things before I do, don’t you dare start without me.”
“We don’t work well together,” Ed says indignantly, puffing up into steam again, but Al
really does have to use the bathroom and as funny as Ed’s General Mustang impressions are
he’s seen a lot of them by now, so he leaves Ed paddling up the river of denial and heads back
to the house.
Chapter End Notes
al: my brother thinks he’s the one lurking protectively behind me holding a big hammer
but in fact it is i standing behind him and i am the biggest hammer of all
Chapter 67
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed claps to push the dirt walls back a bit and make himself a low bench to write on, giving
them some space to work; it’s not real science unless you write it down, and if he takes all the
notes now he can bully Al into writing up the actual paper all nicely later. Even if it doesn’t
work as expected, it’s still pretty fuckin’ significant that ‘magic’ here is a kind of qi; if
nothing else Al will be able to take their experimental data back to Xing and get in good with
the Imperial academic alkahestrists. According to Mei they’re a bunch of stuck-up assholes -
Ed and Al’s Xingese is okay these days, but apparently there’s whole boatloads of
connotations like how you can actually be unspeakably rude to someone just by speaking
super formal at them, so Mei still has to explain half the time whether someone was
genuinely showing respect or hates their guts. Giving Al something they’ll want is a good
thing.
If it doesn’t work. Well. If they can’t shut off magic, they’ll have to do everything the hard
way, not just figure out how to distill Essence of Hairy from Taint of Lord Waitlist. Well,
fine. Ed does not want to involve Gate fuckery, but he’s not going to flinch away from
considering all the options. If what actually happened with lord warthog is he constructed a
body and bound his soul to it - and if he did split his soul and hook it onto Hairy’s little brain
train as an evil little tagalong caboose - then even if they turn lord waterbed into crispy fried
chunks he might just start full-on possessing the kid instead.
Here’s the secret: human transmutation doesn’t always cost an arm and a leg. You can access
your own soul, and fuck around with it bigtime without losing anything immediate like body
parts: Ed healing his impalement proved that. And you can move things around in someone
else’s soul without hitting the Gate, too: Al performing the transplant between Ed and
Hawkeye proved that. It doesn’t come free - Ed tries not to think about how maybe there was
a cost for Al, like Ed’s lifespan, just one they couldn’t see yet - but the risk is much lower, if
you’re doing something like that. If you’re desperate enough.
He hadn’t thought he’d been desperate, about his alchemy. He hadn’t felt different, with his
Gate destroyed; he didn’t feel wounded, or missing something, or broken. It was just that
when he called up an array and reached for the energy, it simply wasn’t there.
It was like consistently missing a step when going down the stairs, which is not what Ed
would call a disability. He’d fucking know. But apparently not everyone thought so. "Havoc
and the General had their disabilities healed,” Hawkeye had told him, her face looking so
different with her hair down, sitting on the Rockbell’s back porch that evening with a bottle
of Granny’s awful berry moonshine between them. “Why not you?”
And Al had echoed, “Why not?”
And they’d done it. There had been a lot of shouting in the middle there, obviously, and Al
fucking played dirty pool and got Winry involved, but in the end they’d sat down in an
awkward triangle in front of the couch, Al in the middle, and reached for them both.
Ed didn’t really experience much of anything, during. Al clapped, pressed one hand over
Hawkeye’s heart and the other over Ed’s, and alchemical discharge played lightly over Ed’s
skin. It had barely lasted two seconds: the reaction had barely dissipated before Hawkeye and
Al were opening their eyes, leaning back and breathing out.
“Did it work?” Ed had said at the same time as Winry, who’d been on standby with
tourniquets just in case one or all of them did lose a hand or something.
“You tell me,” Al said, and Ed clapped and it had worked, the power flowing just like before,
like it had never left him.
He couldn’t not hug Hawkeye then, which she’d tolerated very kindly, even though he
couldn’t quite stop his face from leaking. “Use it,” she’d said into the space between them,
not under her breath or anything but not talking to anyone but Ed. “Do some good.”
And, well, that hadn’t helped Ed’s leaky face situation any. “You ever need a kidney,” he’d
managed, too wet to later deny tears, “a lung, a liver, a corpse disposal, you call me,” and
Hawkeye laughed a little. “You name it, you call me,” Ed had repeated, and she’d squeezed
him and said she handled her own corpse disposals. Ed had said “you know I can counterfeit
untraceable money, right? Just saying. Also, don’t tell anyone I said that,” and then Winry
had started yelling at him for being an idiot and a felon and for getting Hawkeye’s shirt wet
and everything had gone back to normal.
And now Ed has alchemy again. Nobody else really knows how, not that Ed’s dying to tell
anyone that hey, soul transmutation is super possible, everyone should try. Hawkeye hadn’t
wanted to tell either, especially Mustang. “Isn’t he gonna be suspicious?” Ed asked. “He did
tell you about Gate stuff. And you were asking around about it too.”
“If he does start to suspect,” Hawkeye said gravely, “we’ll just have to pretend that we had an
affair.”
That left Ed useless for the rest of the day, hooting like a gibbon as he and Al showed
Hawkeye around all the trails in Resembool, which wasn’t helped any by Hawkeye
occasionally turning to him with no expression and saying something like “It’s just that I
could not conceal my desperate passion for you, Edward,” and “It was enough to embrace
each other, if only for a moment.” Al had finally got fed up with Ed’s honking and pushed
him into a creek, where Hawkeye - “He’s denying our love, sir! He’s trying to separate us!” -
had obligingly pushed Al in after him.
So yeah, he’s cool with being Hawkeye’s work wife. And Mustang’s oh no faces are always
fucking hilarious. He had been suspicious, and probably still fucking is, but when Ed came
back it’d been in the middle of negotiations for the Aerugan ceasefire and between two of the
major earthquakes that year. Aerugo was Mustang’s problem even if the earthquakes weren’t,
but he got to score major points with General Harle and the rest of Infrastructure by throwing
Ed at her department and telling him not to come back until West had functional roads again.
Whatever Father did to fuck with the alchemy on the Promised Day has stuck around:
they’ve gotten more earthquakes in the past five years since than in the entire prior four
hundred put together.
It makes sense, given alchemy draws on tectonics, and also means that Ed saw Mustang face
to face like maybe four times over those next sixteen months, even if they were yelling at
each other over the phone way more often than they ever did before. And now he’s bitching
about Ed’s fucking looks, like he gives a single shit how Ed turns up to work. The fuck is his
game there, does he want Ed to show up more fucked up looking?
Ed realizes he’s tapping the end of his braid against his mouth irritably, so he scowls and
drops it just as he hears the sound of the back door opening. He leans back around one of the
dirt walls to check whether it’s Al or the wizards with the cursed stuff, but it turns out to be
neither: someone’s let a dog out into the yard, with the big yellow cat from earlier right
behind it.
Not enough the vigilantes all brought their kids, they’re bringing their damn pets, too. The
dog trots directly to the bushes, nose to the ground, sniffing excitedly, while the cat picks its
way from the door more slowly. It’s not acting like an indoor cat that got turfed out and is
going to panic, though, so it’s not Ed’s problem. He turns back to his notes.
Though one eye strays to his braid again, when it slips down over his shoulder. It’s fucking
fine. Yeah, he looked super fucked up this morning, and he looks super fucked up pretty
regularly too, but that’s because he has a super fucked up job in a super fucked up country
and it’s a huge waste of time to do more than put his hair back. And he can look nice, fuck
you too, Al. It’s not like Ed hates it. When he went to drop off Al to start his study abroad,
Lan Fan - who refused to speak Amestrisan to Ed the second he could say more than three
words in Xingese, steals dumplings out from under his chopsticks the moment he reaches for
them and hazes like a battalion of drill sergeants - decided to take him to a Xingese spa type
thing, and that turned out to be awesome.
Not that he knew that at the time. He thought she was taking him to her physical therapist. Of
course, she didn’t fucking tell him that either - he just got led to a big courtyard house just
outside the main palace district, where Lan Fan said “Doctor Rui, I brought you a leg,” and
presented him before a teak-faced lady who had arms like Sig’s and also, apparently, an entire
roomful of students awaiting a demonstration lecture on automail.
All the baby doctors looked really excited and hopeful and also Lan Fan was blocking the
door, so Ed figured he could answer a few questions. This resolve lasted about as long as it
took for them to all go to an examination room, where Lan Fan started taking her clothes off.
This time thirty fresh-faced physical therapists were the ones blocking the door, and Lan Fan
was giving him a deeply judgmental look as she climbed onto an examination table, and
when Ed balked at removing his own clothes Dr. Rui said “What? You think you have
anything we haven’t seen, boyfriend?” then slapped his ass like a horse’s rump and chased
him onto a table of his own.
Since Ed did, in fact, have an entire automail leg that they hadn’t seen before, he protested
this treatment as unjust, but nobody fuckin’ listens to you when you’re at the doctor’s in your
underpants. He had to explain all the PT he does for his leg, and show Lan Fan what he used
to do for his arm while hoping like fuck his choppy accented Xingese covers for the fact that
he clearly no longer has an automail arm while still having obvious port installation scarring
all over his chest and shoulder. The metal left embedded in his collarbone and ribs was
mostly removed by an Imperial surgical team on his first visit to Xing - Granny took a look
and told him he might as well try it with medical alkahestry given it’d be nerve damage either
way - but Mei and her aunts had done all the talking there. Ed’s Xingese at the time hadn’t
been anywhere near good enough to catch what the fuck they’d told the doctors about why he
had fragments of automail port in his shoulder like cloves studding a ham, but whatever it
was hadn’t led to any further questions.
Nobody asked him how he lost his leg, either: Dr. Rui asked if it was a clean cut or a crushed
bone situation and that was all, just figuring out what kind of amputation it was before
moving on to the kind of integration surgery required. Ed explained about the titanium struts
and support strata screwed to the bone all up his femur - his automail wasn’t the full Ti-Al-V
model at that point, but you can’t use anything but titanium for the internal osseointegration
or the body rejects it - and the students all busily took notes and sketched diagrams while Ed
continued to be practically naked in front of Lan Fan.
He’s pretty sure she did that on purpose. He told her to fuck off and get Winry a Xingese visa
next time, because he’s not a mechanic or a surgeon and the most he ever did at Rockbell
Automail was hand Winry stuff and scrub down the surgical suite. Lan Fan replied with
something that Ed couldn’t translate and made the whole room bust up laughing, and then
she’d taken Ed to the other side of the medical complex, where it turned out Xingese physical
therapy involves a whole team of assistants and an entire bathhouse.
Ed’s never had a better bodily experience in his life. Amestrisan public bathhouses don’t have
attendants, you just do everything yourself, and at first Ed didn’t exactly want anyone
washing him like some kind of poodle, but after he and Lan Fan got dragged onto different
tables in the courtyard and repeatedly sloshed with buckets of cucumber water, four other
people came out, and what they did was massage.
Automail’s common enough in Amestris that people don’t get too weird about it unless
they’re assholes, but this was a whole other level of don’t give a fuck. The team of attendants
were clearly familiar with Lan Fan; they didn’t even ask at Ed’s leg, just visibly slotted it in
the exact same mental category as her arm and proceeded to work Ed over like a hog getting
shaved for bacon. Those attendants hauled him around that table like some corpse they were
aggressively embalming, and all Ed could do was try and keep the grunts to a minimum with
Lan Fan right there on the other side of the flimsy bamboo screen, clearly taking the same
mauling with stoic indifference.
And it hurt, yeah, but it was good hurt. Ed recognized some of what they did from the stuff
Granny taught him to do himself - amputated muscles need special kinds of stretching and
pressure - but the rest of it was total fucking novelty, from the kneeling on his thighs and
pulling him backward by the arms to the weird flowery oil they poured all over him. And
then they washed his hair, and fixed his nails, and generally made it redundant that he’d
showered and shaved to what he’d thought was a pretty good standard of cleanliness that
morning.
It was weirdly really freeing. There’s nothing that can make you feel normal as much as the
total lack of concern in a stranger’s eyes as they chat among themselves and scrub your
extremely extensive scar tissue with handfuls of cucumber mash and what actually might
have been steel wool. And Ed staggered out of there feeling extremely shiny and very pink
around the edges, groping his own hair like an idiot and marveling at how soft and smooth
it’d dried and generally feeling unnaturally at peace with the world.
Then Lan Fan took them back to the palace and beat the shit out of him, as per their usual
afternoon routine. “Thanks,” Ed said, facedown in the dirt, feeling amazing.
“Mm,” Lan Fan said, and that was that. They’re friends now, maybe. Ed figured that the spa
thing at least was her way of indicating she wouldn’t knife him in his sleep for occasionally
fucking Ling.
He’s interrupted out of his stupid hair thoughts by some snuffling abruptly getting closer, and
then the dog’s suddenly sticking its head under his arm, sniffing excitedly at the bench. “Yo,
no,” Ed says reflexively, snagging an arm around its neck and making sure it’s nowhere near
the array. The circle’s not active, but they don’t need the damn mutt smudging the chalk. “I’m
working here, you can’t do that.”
The dog sits practically on his foot, wagging its tail in the dirt and staring at him like it thinks
he’s got a treat. It’s one of those big shaggy working breeds, bat-eared and black-furred all
over; it’s clearly friendly enough, but thank fuck wizard dogs apparently don’t subscribe to
the universal Amestrisan canine directive of “see Ed, jump up on him like a trampoline
board”. If this thing landed on him it’d leave a dent.
“There’s no food here,” Ed tells it, giving it a scratch around the ears and turning back to his
notes. “Go catch a squirrel or something.”
The dog huffs at him and starts sniffing at his boots. It doesn’t seem inclined to run around,
so Ed lets it snuffle at his knife harness and poke its wet nose into his elbow. As long as it
doesn’t get rowdy he figures it can stick around.
Chapter End Notes
readers: chad - please - the plot -
me: [releases another swarm of flashbacks like plague rats into a sealed subway car]
Chapter 68
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
It’s quiet inside, with almost everyone gone; Al hears indistinct voices from the second floor
landing, sounding like Hairy and his pseudo-uncle, but otherwise there’s not even the tick of
a clock. It might’ve been creepy, given the aggressively dark decor and friezes of ghastly
faces and bones and skulls on a lot of the furniture, but the big paned windows are spilling
sunlight everywhere now and Ed’s been goth since before either of them even knew what
goth was. Al’s used to skulls. And the little border of constellations stamped around the
bathroom mirror is quite charming, even if he doesn’t recognize any of them.
His eyes drift to his own in the mirror when he’s washing his hands, slowing slightly in the
familiar motions of soaping up. He’d meant it when he said he doesn’t think he can do for
Hairy anything like what he’d done for Ed, but just because he doesn’t particularly want to
explore that avenue doesn’t mean he shouldn’t at least think it through. Properly.
But qi is not the soul, though obviously the two are linked, as all things in the body are
linked. And Al - if he looks at it head on, if he’s being honest with himself - he had
committed human transmutation to do it.
He doesn’t regret it. He couldn’t not have done it. Colonel Hawkeye had come to them, all
the way out to Resembool, and after dinner the three of them had sat out on the back porch,
lemonade between them, Winry and Granny in the next town over on a house call. “Roy told
me about the Gate,” Hawkeye had said, without preamble; Al is fairly sure that was the only
time he’s ever heard her call the General Roy. “He looked into it, after. Spoke to Marcoh, and
to Mrs. Curtis as well.”
“What about it,” Ed had said, wary as Al’s ever heard him.
And she told them about her father, and how he was the alchemist that developed the original
arrays for flame alchemy, the ones that gave the alchemist better than thirty percent odds of
controlling the reaction without killing themselves. How her father had made her the keeper
of the formulas, and died when she was fifteen. How she’d been the one to make Roy
Mustang the Flame Alchemist: Hero of Ishval, hundreds of deaths to his name.
“We didn’t know about the Gate, before,” she said steadily. “We didn’t know everyone has
one, or that it’s what lets you access alchemy. Or that you can get rid of it.” She’d looked at
Ed then, meeting his eyes. “If it can be removed, can it be transplanted into someone else?”
Al’s pretty sure his and Ed’s jaws dropped simultaneously, but where Ed started exclaiming
immediately, Al felt the idea crash land in his mind and begin to grow. Ed said “Hawkeye,”
and “Lieuten- I mean Col - Riza,” and “You can’t,” and Al had said, “You can.”
Then, he’d added, in the face of their expressions, “I think.”
From there things had gotten technical.
“We aren’t trying to retrieve anything,” Al had said. “We’re just moving things around. And -
Tucker made human chimeras. That didn’t take him to the Gate.”
“You’re not chimerizing me, you’re taking a chunk of Hawkeye’s soul,” Ed growled.
Al hadn’t said anything about how combining two disparate parts of discrete living organisms
is a definition of chimerism, because comparing the proposed procedure to making chimeras
would have been the surefire way to cement Ed’s refusal to do it. But the core of the
argument was the same. Chimeras like Jerso and Zampano had been made with philosopher’s
stones, which was what made their animal integration so seamless and functional. But Nina -
Nina hadn’t been changed with a stone. And she had recognized them. She’d spoken. It had
been her soul in there, even if her mind had been - affected. And that tells Al that transmuting
a soul is possible, without any philosopher’s stone or opening the Gate.
Why shouldn't they try it?
Al loves alchemy, but not the way Ed does. And Ed’s not a better alchemist, per se: he just
makes leaps that no one else can, faster than anyone else can, in situations where there’s just
no time to communicate. The mudslide on their first trip to Xing, the ‘17 earthquake in East;
in those three years, there were times where Ed having alchemy would’ve made a difference
in the body counts. And Al had been right there with him, and he’d executed the arrays Ed
shouted for him, and he had seen Ed’s face as they both knew that once upon a time they
could have done more. They’d been far from helpless, especially working as a team, but with
Al as the only alchemist - sometimes, there’s just no time.
Ed might not be great at thinking ahead, but in an emergency, there’s few that think faster. If
it had been Ed’s body taken in their first human transmutation, Al doesn’t know that he
would’ve been able to catch and bind his soul in time. To think of a solution, in moments,
while actively bleeding out, leg gone and brother vaporized, at eleven - he doesn’t know how
Ed did it.
But Ed never hesitates. His brain never shuts down the way Al’s does sometimes, never just
refuses to answer or provide options. To be fair, it’s also probably why Ed’s brain is often
indistinguishable from an angry hamster with rabies, but Al considers it equivalent tradeoff
and Ed’s never given any indication he doesn’t think the same. And it had made him capable
of doing things with alchemy that no one else had been able to do.
Ed’s not less, without his alchemy. But Al’s seen what he can do. He can do more.
Al knew he wanted to study medical alkahestry early on in his recovery, when pretty much all
that was available were the Rockbell’s medical textbooks, Granny’s automail periodicals and
anatomical charts. He had a lot of time to read in between bullying his bones into holding
him again, and Granny got a lot of published research journals delivered: on surgical
techniques, on experimental treatments, on pharmacological studies. Al learned about organ
transplants, and graft integration, and stents no wider than a grain of rice; he learned about
neurons rerouting themselves after traumatic brain injuries, about patients with paralysis
learning to walk again, no philosopher’s stone involved.
Death may be absolute, but humans aren’t helpless against it. Al’s pretty sure Ed thought he
was delirious the day he babbled about vaccines being the most fuck-you thing ever invented,
the biggest up-yours to the uncaring causality of the natural order. Ed was probably justified
given Al’s pretty sure he started talking about how injecting a dead virus into yourself is like
eating the corpses of your enemies to absorb their powers, but his point stands. Vaccines!
Human doctors took disease itself apart, figured out how it worked, and then armed
themselves with the pieces. Polio is dying. Smallpox is gone. Medical science took an
invisible killer, a death god, and exposed it and learned its ways and cut it up into baby food.
Literally. Ed and Al have had the little scar-spots on their shoulders from the tuberculosis
vaccine for so long they don’t remember a time without them.
If Al thinks about it, from the very first primitive surgeries and poultices to now, to how Ed
can independently flex his metal toes - he looks to the future, and it makes him want to sit
down. If this is what they’ve done already, then what can they achieve ten years from now?
Twenty? Mom died of what Granny’s pretty sure was pneumonia arising as a complication
from typhus. There’s still no vaccine, but doxycycline is available in pretty much any
Amestrisan pharmacy now and the number of annual typhus cases is the lowest it's ever been.
Better hygiene, more resources, more mobilization, more doctors. More research. More
understanding. More vaccines, against everything that wants to run humanity into the
ground.
All things end. Living things die; it’s part of nature, part of the universe, part of how new
things can begin. But not before their time. Not from preventable fucking complications. The
best way to raise the dead is to keep them from dying in the first place.
Why shouldn’t they be able to give Ed’s Gate back?
Al knows his brother. Ed’s afraid of the Gate. Not because of his arm and leg, Al knows, but
because of him. They both tried to bring Mom back but it was Al who lost his whole body,
and they still don’t know why - what tipped it his way instead of Ed’s, whether it was some
aspect of the human transmutation array that made his position somehow metaphysically
closer to the Truth. And so Ed refuses to think about the Gate as anything other than a kind of
natural law, a phenomenon like gravity or particle radiation or death. It’s not alive; it can’t be
bargained with.
But Ed himself proved that wrong. He offered up his alchemy, just his alchemy and nothing
else, and had it accepted. And Al was there. He saw, and he knew.
It’s not about equivalent exchange. It never was. It’s not about fairness. Whatever the thing in
that blank white space is - mirror, fulcrum, guardian, catalyst - it can be negotiated with. It
can think. It can choose. And it is the truth. The universe. You.
On some level, what you believe matters. And what Al believes in, more than anything else,
is his brother.
If human chimeras can be made and organs can be transplanted without invoking the Gate, so
can parts of a living soul. If Ed can destroy his own Gate, shouldn’t it be possible to just -
move it? It might be impossible to retrieve a soul that has already passed through, but for
something with as physical a connection as a personal Gate - that, Al is willing to bet on.
It’s not like he’s not scared too. But fear has never stopped Ed, so Al tries never to let it stop
him either.
“I want to try,” he had said, and Ed had hissed at him like an angry teakettle.
“I can’t just take Hawkeye’s Gate!”
“You aren’t. I’m not giving up anything,” Hawkeye said calmly. “If there’s a way, I want it
out of me. And I want you to have it.”
Ed had made a lot of upset cow noises about that, but Al could understand. Hawkeye doesn’t
like alchemy. It didn’t sound like she’d had a very happy time growing up, either. She said
Berthold Hawkeye the way Ed usually says Hohenheim. And what she and General Mustang
had done with her father’s alchemy - Al can understand, why she might want even the
potential for it excised out of her.
Al’s not sure Ed totally got her reasoning, implied as it was, but actually convincing him
turned out to be pretty easy, once they involved Winry.
(“OF FUCKING COURSE YOU SHOULD DO IT!”
“BUT IT’S -”
“BUT WHAT? YOU’RE GONNA HANG AROUND HERE, MAKING THE NEIGHBORS
NERVOUS AND WEARING OUT GRANNY’S FLOORS?”
“I DON’T -”
“WHAT, ARE YOU GOING TO BE A SHEEP SHEARER FOR THE REST OF YOUR
LIFE?”
“I -”
“YOU’RE NOT EVEN GOOD AT IT!”
“HEY -”
“STOP BEING AN IDIOT AND ACCEPT! LIEUTENANT COLONEL HAWKEYE CAME
ALL THIS WAY! SHE WANTS TO GIVE YOU A GIFT AND YOU’RE TELLING ME
YOU’RE GOING TO BE A RUDE LITTLE BITCH AND REJECT IT -”
“ I CAN’T JUST TAKE -”
“LIKE FUCK YOU CAN’T! GET OFF YOUR ASS AND GET YOUR ALCHEMY AND
GET THE FUCK OFF MY COUCH BEFORE I START CHARGING YOU RENT!”)
And so they’d done it. And now Ed has alchemy again, even if he does use it these days like
it’s going to be taken away again at any minute.
It was worth it. Al would do it again, if necessary, despite the risk. Even though - well.
Al hadn’t told Ed this part, and never will. He did brush the Gate during the transplant. Or at
least - he thinks he did. He’s pretty sure he came close. He has very vivid dreams now, ever
since getting his body back, and incredibly realistic hallucinations, the two times he got a
fever early on in the recovery; sometimes it takes him all morning, to determine whether
something happened or if it was just a dream. And during the Gate transmutation, it had only
been a second. That soundless, scentless, seamless place is unmistakable - but it was only for
a second. Just long enough that Al still isn’t quite sure.
Not that it mattered. Real or not real - he hadn’t been about to take chances. He had felt the
unsensation of the inbetween, the nerveless touch of a space that might have been nothing
more than the darkness behind his eyes. It was aware as he was, a presence like a mirror, and
real or not in that moment Al knew it was paying attention to him.
The Gate doesn’t care about pleas or threats, bribes or circumstances. But it can think. It can
choose. And it is the truth. The universe. You.
My brother gave for me. Now we give for him, Al thought, in that endless moment, and he
held his conviction like a sword. One human gives to another. We aren’t taking anything from
you. Leave it be.
And either the phantom sensation of falling into Gate-space passed, or it let them go. It lasted
less than a second, or no time at all. And Al reached through Ed and Hawkeye, for the
presence where Ed had an absence, and pulled across the gap.
Not bad, for Al’s second ever soul surgery. And when Ed clapped again for the first time and
light blazed between his hands, the shock of joy on his face justified all the risk.
Al’s not at all sure he could do something similar for Hairy. For one thing, Al knows what a
Gate feels like now, and the malignant qi isn’t it. For another, something like what he did for
Ed and Hawkeye would be a very, very, very last resort. Assuming worst case scenario, he
has to assume he had brushed the Gate. Just because it let them go that time doesn’t mean it
will again. And any surgery is always by definition invasive, always a balance of risk: the
malignant qi isn’t actually hurting Hairy, and if the supposed link is severed from the other
end - if the Voldemort person is dead - then it might do much more harm than good to try and
remove it instead of just leaving it be as a benign tumor: something to watch, but better to
leave alone. After all, his duty as a medical professional is clear: reduce harm wherever
possible.
Al frowns slightly into the mirror, deliberately pulling the corners of his mouth down. If he’s
going to do anything as extensive as take over Hairy’s entire cardiopulmonary function, he
wants to run some alkahestric tests here first. Like he told Ed, the only thing he’s used
alkahestry for so far was the diagnostic EEG array, and that one was as static as arrays get:
zero variables, no directivity required, just activate the circle and go. Those kinds of arrays
regulate their own energy intake: if you inscribe it to run at 30 or 50 or 500 J/s then that’s
how many it’ll use, no more no less. Any fluctuations or irregularities in qi wouldn’t affect it
unless there wasn’t enough energy for the array to run at all.
Using alchemy or alkahestry without a circle, on the other hand, is almost all variables: it
allows for a lot more flexibility but also makes you focus on what you’re actually doing,
directing everything from how much energy you’re using to the shape of whatever it is you’re
transmuting. Most alchemists operate at a midpoint, especially with proprietary arrays -
enough flexibility for them to tailor some variables on the fly while still offloading the bulk
of the control into the circle.
Just for curiosity’s sake, Al taps his hands together, thinking of Ed’s offload-energy-as-light
idea, and pulls on the Dragon’s Pulse, laying his palms to the bathroom sink. It’s a simple
array, similar to one Mei showed him that was mostly a toy, used to create light show for kids
when there aren’t any fireworks: alkahestric energy here does nothing more than light up the
array, chasing itself around the circle for as long as it’s active. The more you feed into it, the
longer it’ll last; it won’t give him any useful numbers, but if the qi really is denser here, this
will be a quick way to check.
Al deliberately leaves the variable open-ended, only guiding the flow, not feeding it, and
watches the reaction.
“Ah,” he says after a long moment. “Well.”
That’s. Something.
“So… the alkahestry trials are going to be interesting,” Al calls as he steps out into the
backyard again, heading for their little dirt enclosure and turning the corner. “We may want to
test that first, before we -”
Al stops dead. He can see that Ed’s petting - a dog, a big black one, absently ruffling its ears
as he flips through their notes with his free hand, but in qi -
“Ed, get away from that thing.”
Chapter End Notes
Al: ah. I’m afraid i’ve become god
Al: and just in time, too
Chapter 69
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
One second Elric is right there, the next he’s three feet away, somersaulted backwards from a
sitting start to get away from Sirius. Sirius startles badly, jerking backwards with hackles
rising - and then Alphonse is coming at him, blue light crackling over something twisting in
his hands, and Sirius decides this is maybe not a situation that can be resolved with a couple
of friendly barks and a tail wag.
He shifts back. Things immediately get worse. Elric goes from startled to horrified, and then
he snarls. “No, wait,” Sirius exclaims, “Hang on,” only Elric’s already clapped.
The ground surges under Sirius, knocking him to his knees, and then he’s suddenly sunken
into it up to waist. And then Alphonse is right in front of him, blue-white light still snapping
over a bloody great sword as he levels it right at Sirius’ face.
“Bloody fucking bollocks, have you lost your minds?” Sirius blurts, goggling at the sword tip
about to tickle his nose.
“What are you,” Alphonse demands.
“It’s me! Sirius!” He jerks against the dirt, but even though his arms are free he’s well and
truly stuck. Where’s Harry? They came out together, but Sirius immediately went into his dog
act and hasn’t smelled him since they split up at the door. “I’m a bloody Animagus!”
“You’re a shapeshifter,” Alphonse says coldly. He doesn’t look like a children’s librarian
anymore; he looks like a six foot tall man holding a three foot long blade. “And you were
trying to trick my brother.”
Sirius opens his mouth to deny it, but it is technically true and the sword is really very close
to his face. “That was just a prank! I just wanted to see what you lot were up to out here!”
“You had me scratching your ears, you sick fuck,” Elric shouts, scrubbing his gloves on his
pants like he thinks Sirius has dog leprosy or something. “Ugh!”
“It’s not like I enjoyed that either!”
“You were wagging your tail!”
“Well it’s not like I was about to break character! You’re the one who started petting me, I
was just standing next to you!” Sirius struggles against the dirt again, but there’s no give. He
can’t even get at his wand - it’s in his pants, pinned to him by the dirt. “How the hell did you
even know I was an Animagus?”
“What the fuck is an Annie magus!” Sirius had been asking Alphonse, but by now he
should’ve expected Elric’s need to fill any silence with shouting. “Is that what you call
chimeras here? How the fuck did you turn into a whole dog?”
“That’s what an Animagus is,” Sirius says, running out of patience with the way these two
have daisy-planted him in dirt and started poking swords around like they think they’re
Godric bloody Gryffindor. What the hell are they so worked up for? It’s not even like they’re
doing anything back here besides scratching runes into dirt.
“Oh, yet a fucking Nother thing these fucking wizards haven’t told us about,” Elric snaps.
“When you’ve already had a fucking impostor problem! You were a dog ten seconds ago.
Now you say you’re the real psycho and we’re just supposed to believe you?”
“What are you doing?”
It’s Moony, standing in the gap between two dirt walls, taking an abortive step forward when
he sees Sirius in the ground - his wand is pointed up and to the side, a handful of objects held
in a Levitating Charm above his shoulder.
With two steps Alphonse gets behind Sirius, and judging by the point of pressure on his back
ribs the sword is now positioned to run him through. “Stop,” Alphonse says flatly. “Don’t
come any closer.”
Moony stops, eyes flicking from Sirius to Elric to Alphonse and his sword. Elric stays
crouched low to the ground, watching the wand in Moony’s hand. “Oh, for - that’s just
Remus,” Sirius says, trying not to sound too exasperated - Moony’s wand is occupied, these
two Unplottables might be the hex-happiest people Sirius has ever met and Harry’s who
knows where at this point. “He’s brought you the cursed things you asked for, look.”
“Al?” Elric says tersely.
“He felt normal before,” Alphonse says evenly. “He feels normal now. So does this one. We
know there’s a spy, unwitting or not. With everyone else gone, now would be the perfect time
to come after us.”
A spy? As Sirius gapes at Moony Elric’s face hardens, and in one fluid movement he claps
again and touches the ground. Blue lightning crackles as the dirt walls around them grind to
life, meeting behind Moony and sealing off any retreat. “Please don’t teleport away,”
Alphonse says. “We don’t want anyone getting hurt.”
The way he says it makes it pretty obvious that the person hurting would be Sirius, but that’s
not even the most concerning thing they said. “A spy?” Sirius demands. “Who?” Then, as it
occurs to him, “Snape’s a spy for us. I don’t like him as much as the next bloke but
Dumbledore’s got him on some kind of leash, you don’t have to worry about him.” He
doesn’t add so let’s all calm down and stop threatening people with swords now, but
hopefully they’ll get the point.
Moony, though, has started to look very tired, in that way that means there’s something going
on that’s been going on for a long time and he doesn’t like it but there’s nothing he can do
about it. “What?” Sirius asks him, because if there is something wrong that Moony and the
Unplottables have picked up on - “Dumbledore has got something on him - hasn’t he?”
“It’s not Snape,” Moony says. But then he doesn’t say anything else, and that tells Sirius -
“You know,” he says, staring at Moony. “There is a spy. And you know who it is.”
“Sirius,” Remus says heavily.
“Don’t Sirius me! There’s a spy in the Order?”
“Step into the circle,” Alphonse says, apropos of absolutely nothing.
Elric looks sharply at his brother. Only for a second, but it’s enough for alarm bells to start
ringing in Sirius’ head, briefly drowning out even the fact that there’s a spy in the Order and
Moony hasn’t told him . “What?” he demands. Have they been doing something dangerous
back here with their chalk and dirt - is this why they’re doing it outside the house? “Why the
circle? What’s it got to do with anything?”
“Prove you’re not a spy,” Alphonse says, tipping his head at the chalked runes. “Step
inside.”
Well that doesn’t answer anything. “Why?” Sirius says more sharply. “What’s it going to
do?”
“It’s safe,” Alphonse says, which is not an answer. He hasn’t taken his eyes off Moony,
either, but Sirius feels he’s talking to his brother more than either of them. “We tested it. If
he’s who he says he is, then there won’t be any problems.”
“Problems?” Sirius demands, not liking that one bit. “Like what, you cutting my head off?”
“That would be a problem,” Alphonse says in a disturbingly agreeable tone of voice. Elric’s
face has tightened; Sirius is expecting some more of his raspy shouting, but he doesn’t say
anything, just reaches out and presses one palm to the outermost line of chalk.
Light races across the symbols, the whole thing igniting with a hum. It’s a hard, blue-white
glow - the same color as a Patronus, almost, only where Patronus light is gauzy and
comforting this light is sharp, edged. It hurts to look at for too long.
“What exactly… is that,” Moony says carefully, eyeing the glowing symbols.
“A tool to help us determine whether you’re who you say you are,” Alphonse says, in an easy
tone that Sirius finds a bit jarring given he can very much still feel the swordpoint touching
the back of his ribs. “Under the circumstances, I’m afraid I’m going to have to insist.”
The circle hums faintly, the occasional arc of blued lightning snapping lazily around the
edges. “Why’s he got to get in there? How’s that going to prove anything?” Sirius demands.
“Listen, I can prove I’m no impostor right now - ask me something only Sirius Black would
know.”
“How would we know what only you would know?” Alphonse says in a disturbingly
reasonable tone. “For all we know you’ve been an imposter since the moment we met you.”
“It’s alright, Sirius,” Moony says. “I’m happy to prove I’m who I say I am. I doubt it’s going
to hurt me.”
Sirius swallows back a protest. It’s true that it generally takes a Killing Curse to kill
werewolves. Silver hurts Moony, and he gets injured like any wizard, but part of the
werewolf curse is resilience as well as inhuman strength. He can shake off most hexes and
survive otherwise deadly spells. While Sirius had been rotting in prison Moony had taken
work where he could get it - dealing with dark creatures, disposing of minor curses. His
credentials to teach DADA at Hogwarts were real. Whatever this mess of runes is, Moony
can handle it.
And when Moony does prove he’s no imposter they can give these two brats a little hexing
for their trouble. “I’m going to lower these,” Moony says in the measured way he talks to
show-me-your-werewolf-registration-card Aurors, indicating the handful of objects he’s
hovering. “Then I’ll put my wand down, and enter the circle. Is there anything else you need
me to do?”
“No,” Alphonse says. “Just stand in the open space between the lines.”
“Alright,” Moony says, and lowers the hovering objects and then lays his wand on the
ground.
“If you’re disguising yourself, it’ll get stripped off,” Elric says directly to Moony. It looks for
a second like he’s going to say more, but then he just shuts his mouth into an unhappy line.
“That won’t be a problem,” Moony says, hypnotically calm. It’s a good thing he’s got so
much practice dealing with crazed bastards, Sirius thinks bitterly. “Is there anything else I
should know?”
Elric doesn’t answer, just flattens his mouth further. “Very well then,” Moony says, and walks
into the circle.
He immediately gags and drops to his knees, the entire thing flaring suddenly with blinding
white light. “Moony!”
“Oh, shit,” Elric swears, eyes wide but making no move to help Moony or to stop the circle
or anything. “He really is a spy? Fuck, Al -”
“He’s not a spy, you fucking idiots! Let me go!” Sirius throws himself at the dirt again but all
that gets him is bruised hips. “What are you doing?”
Moony retches so hard his whole back bows. “He’s fine,” Alphonse says.
“You call that bloody fine? Shut it off!” Sirius takes back every good thought he ever had
about these two vicious blond bastards; when he gets himself out of this fucking dirt he’s
going to tear their throats out. “Moony - get out of there, come on -“
Moony’s shaking all over, doesn’t seem to hear him. And then his whole body arches, and he
howls.
Sirius knows that howl. He’s never heard it coming from Remus’ human face before - but
there’s a haze coming off him, thickening fast, ropy grey tendrils smoking off his skin and
writhing as they’re sucked down into the circle’s light. The circle gets brighter and brighter,
the hum doesn’t get louder but becomes somehow more, Sirius’ back teeth are shaking -
- and then the howl cuts off, and it’s just Moony, on all fours, panting.
The light dies down. For a moment, the only sound is the circle’s eerie hum. “Moony!”
“He’s fine,” Alphonse repeats from behind Sirius, sounding utterly bloody unconcerned.
“He’s not fine! What did you do to him?”
Moony gasps a bit, swallows twice. “I’m,” he manages. “I’m alright. That…”
“You’re not alright!” Sirius bursts out. “You - what was that?”
But Moony’s just staring at his hands, now, turning them over slowly, still panting, and when
he suddenly looks up at Sirius his eyes are wild. “My wand,” he says urgently. “I’m - I think
-” His gaze snaps to the Unplottables, and he scrambles to his feet. “I think - I need to check
-”
“What’s he saying?” Elric says sharply, as Moony makes to get out of the circle and stops
short at Elric’s voice.
“Ah,” Alphonse says. “I don’t think the translation stone works within the circle.”
“He’s saying let him out, you bloody great twats,” Sirius snarls. “He’s not a spy, clearly, and
if whatever you’ve done to him hurts him -”
“No,” Moony says, face oddly feverish, eyes darting from Elric to Sirius to his wand lying on
the ground. “No, no, I’m fine, just - I just need to check -“
“Let him out. We need to understand him,” Alphonse says, coincidentally moving his sword
just enough to remind Sirius and probably everyone else that there’s a fucking great spike of
metal still poised under Sirius’s shoulderblades.
Elric steps aside, scowling, and Moony walks out of the circle, obviously restraining himself
from moving too quickly. “I just need to check something,” he tells Elric, his voice trembling
just the slightest bit - but he’s standing upright and moving easily enough, even if he’s got a
strange, most un-Remuslike light in his eyes. “I need to pick up my wand - I’m just going to
cast a spell on myself, that’s all. I just need to check,” and when Elric makes no move to stop
him and Alphonse doesn’t try to behead Sirius, he goes to his wand.
He seems to hesitate when he picks it up, staring down at it, but then he swallows and presses
it to his forearm in a gesture Sirius has only seen a few times before. “Homolupi Revelio.”
The tip of his wand lights up gold.
Sirius’s jaw drops. No detection. “Homolupi Revelio,” Moony repeats, voice shaking fully
now - gold light again, even stronger this time - and then again, “ Homolupi Revelio.
Homolupi Revelio.” Gold. Gold. Gold.
Moony looks up in total disbelief, meeting Sirius’s eyes. Sirius doesn’t know what the hell
happened in that circle, but the detection spell has been used for centuries, infallible - he’s
seen Moony demonstrate on himself before, the wand tip lighting every time a sickly green.
But now - that grey smog, torn from his very skin and sucked into the light -
“You’re cured,” Sirius says, hushed. “You’re - Merlin’s tits, Moony, you’re not a werewolf.”
Chapter End Notes
i love piling up snowflakes one by one until eventually
the avalanche
Chapter 70
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Mustache and Psycho gawp at each other all wall-eyed for a bit, and then Mustache staggers
over and sort of collapses on Psycho. They hug like a couple of near-drowned sailors.
“Werewolf,” Ed repeats. “Werewolf?”
“Not anymore,” Mustache says unsteadily, but he doesn’t sound, like, unhappy about it. What
the fuck had Psycho said about ‘cured’?
“It’s an illness?” Al says critically, clearly thinking the same thing. He hasn’t lowered his
sword, but he has stepped back slightly now that Psycho and Mustache are both right there in
front of him. Ed’s gotta admit that if these wizards are spies then this would be one hell of an
unscripted performance, but he’d let his guard down once already and that got him scratching
behind some freak’s ears while he panted in Ed’s face all hee hee I’m not an adult human
man at all!
“How do we even know that was werewolf...ism?” Ed demands, because sure, Mustache
might’ve been down on all fours howling like a wolf but given shit around here makes less
and less sense every five fucking minutes that may as well have been total fucking
coincidence. “He just shows up right as we find out this fucking dog guy is fucking spying on
us - what if he was also possessed by evil ghost soul magic?”
“He wasn’t,” Al says, watching the two wizards, and okay, yeah, he’d copped that Hairy had
something wrong right away, while this whole woo-woo bullshit came out of the blue. “But
there wasn’t any indication of… werewolfism either.”
“I don’t know what the hell you’re talking about,” Psycho says somewhat distractedly; he and
Mustache have pulled apart a bit but kept staring at each other like they’re the first two
prehistoric fish to try walking on land. “But moonie was definitely a wear wolf.”
“Oh yeah? And you knew that, all this time, and y’all still thought I was a werewolf?” Ed
says acidly. “Try a-fucking-gain, asshole.”
“Dedalus Diggle thought you were a wear wolf,” Mustache says, visibly pulling himself
together as he further extracts himself from Psycho. “And Dedalus Diggle is an upstanding
member of the order who couldn’t tell a Basilisk from a bacon sandwich. I highly doubt
anyone else ever considered you to be a wear wolf.” He straightens his shirt a bit, glancing
down at himself like he’d be self conscious if he had any room in between all the
bogglement, and then looks at Al. “Is this - is this permanent?”
“How the fuck should we know? We don’t have werewolves,” Ed stresses. He hadn’t been
expecting any of that, and while, yeah, he tested the circle himself, he hadn’t expected Al to
just strongarm the guy in there. Ed can understand why it would’ve been a bad idea to inform
Mustache of all the risks before sticking him inside, especially given their opsec appears to
be dropping points every other minute while starting from an already negative number, but
it’s not exactly okie-fuckin’-dandy that they just backed some wizard into the array with
barely a wink in the direction of informed consent.
Not that they had a choice. If Psycho really has been a shapeshifter this whole time and all
these vigilantes know about it, how come nobody’s told them? What the fuck else haven’t
they been told?
“I’m assuming you weren’t born a werewolf,” Al says, still watching the wizards like they’re
a petri dish he’s not sure he wants to open.
“No,” Mustache says. “No, no, I - you get bitten. It’s not heritable. I was bitten as a child,
and, well - it’s a curse.” He straightens his shirt again, kind of awkwardly, apparently not
noticing or caring much that he’s still in the dirt on his knees; he’s looking at his hands again,
turning his left over to stare at his wrist.
“It’s gone now,” Psycho says all reassuring. “And if it comes back, you can just hop right
back in this thing again.”
“Yes, I…” Mustache trails off, looking back at the circle, and then his eyes flick to Ed and Al
like it’s just occurred that maybe they aren’t chalking daisies and hopscotch grids back here.
“This is a curse breaking tool,” he says in realization. “That’s what you wanted cursed objects
for.” And then, “This is for Hairy.”
“What’s for Hairy?” Psycho says, staring at Mustache. “What - this? You - has he been
cursed?”
“Dumbell door suspects that there may be a… problem,” Mustache starts.
“Uh, how about you hold the fuck up, sunshine,” Ed says, jerking his chin at Psycho as he
leans down and smacks the array active again. “This freak hasn’t had his turn in the circle yet
and who the fuck knows what he is.”
“I told you, I’m an Annie magus!”
Ed ignores him, because dog impostors doing their best involuntary potted ficus impression
don't have rights. “Ah,” Mustache says, blinking. “He really is serious black. I can vouch for
that. It wouldn’t be possible for either of us to be here in any case, if dumbell door hadn’t
personally told us the secret of the Fidelius charm.”
“Oh sure! But if he told the wrong fucking idiot, we’re all fucked, and some hoot already
pretended to be fuckin’ Peg Leg Pirate under y’all’s noses for a year,” Ed snaps. “I’m not
feelin’ real fuckin’ trusting about your personal assurances, o-kay? And if he is the real meal
deal convict,” Ed stabs a finger at Psycho, “why the fuck was he out here pretending to be a
dog.”
“Oh, like you weren’t doing whatever you pleased to the house and yanking portraits off
walls,” Psycho says testily.
“That was for research,” Ed snarls.
“Well so’s bloody this! We have a right to know what you’re doing out here, planning to do
to - to Hairy!”
“No, you don’t,” Al says, so conversationally casual it leaves Psycho blinking for a second.
“You’re lucky it was us you tried to trick and not any of the others. This is a medical tool for
Hairy, yes,” he goes on, which makes Ed stare at him for a second until he catches on - Al’s
not lying, but if Psycho is a spy, then he’s already seen the array in action. And if they can
convince him it’s a super specialized medical curse breaky thing and not a global off switch -
shit, that’s what they want these wizards to believe anyway, even if they aren’t spies. If the
cat’s out of the bag, better make it a wrong one.
“Calling it a curse breaker is in some ways accurate, though we did not expect it to affect…
werewolves,” Al continues. “But it does deal with malicious magic.”
Not a word of a lie, not at all the truth, and the wizards fully fixated on the decoy. Al’s a
genius. “Malicious magic?” Psycho repeats. “What kind of malicious magic is on Hairy?
Wouldn’t someone have noticed? And don’t think I’ve forgotten about there being a spy in
the order, moonie -”
“Hairy is the spy,” Mustache says.
Psycho’s jaw drops. “What?”
“Dumbell door suspects you know who cursed him,” Mustache says heavily. “As a baby, or
maybe later on… but he thinks you know who connected himself to Hairy’s mind somehow,
and that he’s capable of seeing and hearing through Hairy’s eyes and ears.”
Psycho gapes at Mustache some more. “And dumbell door hasn’t done anything?”
“There’s no way to check if it’s actually there,” Mustache says tiredly. “Dumbell door says
he’s tried, but it’s not detectable.”
“Then how does he even know there’s anything there at all?” Psycho demands. “If he can’t
find anything -”
“The pain in Hairy’s scar, and his true dreams. He wouldn’t be having them if they weren’t
connected somehow.”
That snaps Psycho’s mouth shut, writing his face into grim lines. “So Hairy might have had
Voldemort in his mind somehow, possibly for years, and - dumbell door said not to tell me.
Didn’t he,” Psycho says sharply. “He told you, and probably the rest of the order, but not me
-”
“We’ve confirmed it,” Al says before Psycho can go fully into histrionics. “There is
something there.”
“There is?” Mustache says swiftly. “Can you remove it?”
“We’re still trying to determine what it is,” Al says, doctor voice in full effect. “Calling it a
curse might not be entirely accurate, but thanks to the unexpected results in your case -” he
nods at Mustache - “it’s very possible our methods will work regardless.”
“It’s not a curse?” Psycho demands. “Then what the hell is it then?”
Al glances at him. “Medically speaking?”
“Yes bloody medically speaking! What’s wrong with him?”
“You’re not going to like it.”
“What? Who bloody cares if I like it! He’s my god son. I have a right to know!”
Al inclines his head slightly in a well, you asked for it way. “There’s… hm, well. Analogy is
really the only descriptor available, but I’d say it’s the most accurate way to explain
regardless. Hairy appears to be hosting an… outside entity, which seems to be connected in
some ways to his soul, and appears to be supported by his physical and nonphysical systems
the way placentas support fetuses.”
“Holy fuck, his soul is pregnant?” Ed exclaims.
“His what is WHAT?” Psycho yelps.
“Not his soul,” Al says, making some calm-down-it’s-just-syphilis gestures. “Well, not
exactly -”
Psycho goggles at him. “You said he was healthy! You didn’t mention anything like that!”
“He is healthy,” Al says, soothing. “Physically.”
“Except for his pregnant brain?” Psycho shouts.
“Is it going to give birth?” Ed demands, higher pitched than he’d like.
“Well…. I can’t definitively say there’s no chance of the foreign presence metastasizing -”
“Al, I swear to fuck, if his fucking forehead is going to crap out an evil qi baby -”
Movement flickers in the corner of Ed’s eye, and he whirls in place in time to see Hairy
unfurl himself out of thin air, face grim with determination, and jump into the still-active
circle.
Chapter End Notes
PREGNART?

Chapter 71
Chapter Notes
im using russian for amestrisan here just bc its the language im familiar enough with to
use as a fantasy lang
See the end of the chapter for more notes
It had started off simple: getting around under the Cloak is practically second nature by now,
and he doesn’t even have to dodge Peeves or Mrs. Norris or Filch here to get around. He’s
not even doing anything against the rules, either - the Unplottables are just out in the
backyard, and nobody said anything about staying away from them. And even if they had -
Harry needs to know. Even Hermione had said keep an eye out, just before they’d all left, and
her eyes had darted downstairs, to where the Unplottables were.
Harry had just planned to maybe try and corner Elric when he was alone, because despite
being an utter pillock he’d still managed to let the most information slip - mentioning a
prophecy, talking about Mundungus disappearing, telepathy with Voldemort - but then Sirius
had suggested the Cloak. They aren’t going to have an excuse if they do get caught, but Harry
doesn’t care. If no one is going to tell him anything, he’s not just going to sit shut up in some
room and wait to see what Voldemort’s going to send next. Better to get bawled out than die
because everybody thought him too unstable to trust with any information whatsoever.
So he opens the door for Sirius - and Crookshanks, who darts up at the last moment and slips
outside just ahead of him. Harry has to skip sideways to avoid accidentally punting the cat
across the yard, but luckily this maneuver is ingrained beyond reflex due to all those hours he
used to spend at Mrs. Figg’s. He has to flail to get the door shutting naturally behind them,
too, but they all make it into the yard, and no angry bronzed faces come popping up out of
their dirt enclosure so Harry considers it a success.
When he approaches he sees the short Elric is alone in there, sitting crosslegged on the
ground and writing in his notebook, braced on yet another of those geometric blocks of dirt
he’s so fond of making. A moment later Padfoot rounds the walls, nose to the ground, and
goes right for Elric: Harry tenses, wand in hand, but Sirius was right - Elric reacts like he’s
just a dog, wrapping an arm around his neck, ruffling Padfoot’s ears, even.
Harry turns to the chalk circle in the dirt, since Padfoot’s close enough to see what Elric is
writing. It looks like a lot of runes. Hadn’t Hermione taken Runes in third year? What are
runes even used for? He’ll have to ask her.
Maybe if he gets a better look he can copy some down.
He makes to take a step forward, only to find Crookshanks right in front of him: staring right
at him as if he were visible, tail swishing slowly from side to side.
Harry quickly glances up at Elric, but he’s buried in his papers, wholly ignoring even Padfoot
who’s practically got his snout on his shoulder. When Harry looks back down he finds
Crookshanks now at his feet, sniffing delicately at the Cloak around his ankles.
Then Crookshanks bumps his head into Harry’s invisible shins, and in a fit of wholly
unprecedented behavior starts rubbing against them, like Harry’s somehow in the past ten
seconds become his favorite human in the world.
This is going to get him noticed, on top of being deeply bloody weird. Up until yesterday
Harry would have said Crookshanks loves no one save Hermione, and after yesterday he
could only say he now loves Hermione and one Elric. Harry tries shifting back, but
Crookshanks just follows him: he’s a big cat, and when he throws his weight against Harry’s
legs it’s enough to make him wobble. “Get off,” Harry mouths.
Crookshanks begins to purr.
Harry looks around frantically, but Elric doesn't seem to have noticed that a cat ten feet away
is twining against thin air and rumbling like a rusty lawnmower. Padfoot hasn’t either, though
maybe he’s just trying not to get Harry noticed. Just because Elric isn’t looking up now
doesn’t mean he won’t any second, so Harry backs away as quickly as he dares, careful not to
let the Cloak slip.
Crookshanks follows him. Harry backs across the yard. Crookshanks advances. Harry stops.
Crookshanks stops. Can the cat see him? Harry tries waving his arms, mouthing shoo, git.
Crookshanks meows.
Harry’s not mad enough to try jinxing Hermione’s cat, but he’s got to cast a Muffliato or
something before this furball gets him caught. He backs away further, towards where Elric’s
dirt walls meet the tangled shrubbery abutting the fence around Grimmauld Place, and
Crookshanks follows him again . Did Hermione put some kind of spell on him, to make him
keep track of Harry? He keeps backing up until he’s practically standing in the bushes, where
if he whispers silencio Elric won’t hear it. Probably.
Crookshanks has stopped a few feet away, tail swishing. Harry glares at the cat for a minute,
but it doesn’t appear to be interested in going further now. Crookshanks continues to just
stands there, inscrutably feline and somehow looking even more judgmental than usual, so
after a few moments Harry turns his attention to the dirt wall less than a foot away.
They aren’t exactly joined together - it’s a handful of slabs with maybe an inch of gap at the
corners, like when Elric conjured them he hadn’t cared much if the end result was perfectly
aligned or not. Harry’s not going to be able to squeeze through, but he can definitely see
inside: the chalked runes are much closer to him here. Are there spells for memorization?
Well, probably not, otherwise Hermione would have made them learn them all first year.
Harry definitely can’t memorize all of this without magical help, especially given he has no
clue what he’s looking at. A lot of it looks like numbers.
The Unplottables talked about testing all kinds of things, and at breakfast they’d seemed very
excited to start on things that had nothing to do with Voldemort at all. Elric definitely had a
bee up his bum about magic in general, and he’d had all those radios and meters and things,
running his little tests on Grimmauld Place; Harry doesn’t see any of that equipment here
now, but Elric is writing very busily into his papers.
Harry has an urge to go over there and shove that ballpoint up his nose. They’re fighting a
war, and the Unplottables who came here to help the Order are out wandering Diagon Alley
or sitting in a backyard, probably writing about worm topography or math holes or whatever
it was they were so excited about over breakfast.
Harry’d felt a stir of something darker than hope when he’d seen Elric smack Snape across
the face so hard his body twisted: the Order needed fighters against the Death Eaters, people
who could duel and win, and here they were. The rest of that evening, however, where they’d
revealed most of the Unplottables were muggles - Elric might claim he’s not a wizard, but
what he does bloody well looks like magic to Harry, even if he’s calling it something
different. And apparently only three of them can do it. Wandless magic isn’t nothing - what’s
Expelliarmus going to do if there’s nothing to disarm? - but it’s not like Voldemort’s going to
bother with an Expelliarmus. Harry’s not sure bullets will be able to get through to him,
either. He’s only ever seen guns in glimpses of Dudley’s video games, but judging by how
Moody dismissed them to Elric they aren’t exactly a major concern to the average wizard.
Harry gets a brief flash of that night at the World Cup, the muggles levitated by cloaked
figures in masks, the woman with her nightdress hanging over her face like a ragdoll held
upside down. The Dark Mark, hanging over the forest like a sick joke of a moon. Elric
might’ve trounced Snape, but like Madam Bones said - the rest are muggles. He’s seen what
Death Eaters do to muggles.
He saw what Voldemort did to Cedric, too. And himself. He’s the only one who has. If the
Unplottables want to take on Voldemort, they’re going to have to do better than three
alchemists, no matter how good they can backflip and punch.
Something wraps around Harry’s ankle.
He kicks on reflex, but the thing - a vine, he sees, glancing down in alarm, it’s a vine coming
from the bushes - doesn’t come loose. The Cloak’s slipped enough without him noticing for
his whole foot to be visible from the calf on down, and Harry has to yank it back in place as
he kicks more urgently at the thick green tendril. Is this Devil’s Snare? Can he set fire to it? If
it’s not Devil’s Snare is it one of those plants Professor Sprout had put on the list titled don’t
try fire that makes it angry? Harry finds himself ardently wishing he’d paid as much attention
as Hermione’d wanted him to in fourth year Herbology, because whatever it is in these
Grimmauld bushes is trying to strangle his ankle with great enthusiasm and it’s not letting go
despite his best football striker impression.
He’s got to try fire. He fumbles the Cloak up to stick his wand out and try an Incendio - only
to hear the door to the house open, prompting him to immediately fumble it all back again.
It’s the tall Elric, Alphonse, and he’s saying something in an absentminded sort of tone as he
crosses the yard, only the vines took Harry’s moment of distraction to summon
reinforcements so he doesn’t exactly catch that. Alphonse doesn’t seem to have noticed the
violently shaking shrubbery on the far side of the dirt walls, at least, which is small favors
given Harry’s situation but he’ll take it -
Only then he hears Alphonse snap for his brother to move, and then Sirius’s exclamation, and
he gives up on both stealth and getting the Cloak out of the way and starts stomping.
And then the ground starts shaking, which means nobody hears him thump at the plants but
also means he nearly loses his balance, teeters wildly into the shrubs and just barely snatches
his wrist away from getting vined as well. Whatever this thing is, it’s definitely angry now:
more vines are rising out of the bushes, snaking towards his legs, and the first one around his
ankle is starting to squeeze.
Harry whips up the Cloak, jabs his wand outward and hisses “Incendio!”, directing the small
jet of flames directly at the vines. The plant immediately begins to thrash, making him
windmill one arm to stay upright, and he hears the house door opening again but since he’s a
bit occupied with dancing a mad jig to keep his trainers out of the plant’s clutches he can’t
tell who it is. The plant recoils from his dying flames but not without a fight - Harry has to
kick furiously in concert with another incendio to get free, charring his jeans slightly in the
process.
He hears Lupin’s voice as he gets the hell away from the shrubs - that must have been who
came outside. He sounds calm, even if Sirius doesn’t, which reassures Harry a bit -
But then the ground shakes again. The dirt blocks grind together, trapping Sirius and Lupin
inside.
Harry skids up to the walls too late, panting, to find every single gap closed. He darts around
to the front and finds there’s not even a seam to show where the entrance had been, just sheer
packed earth on all sides. He can hear Sirius, at least - and Lupin - they’re talking about - a
spy?
Harry stares unseeing at the dirt in front of his face. A spy. Lupin says it’s not Snape. Is it
Snape? Is there someone else, too? Another Pettigrew, selling out to Voldemort while
pretending to be part of the Order? And the Unplottables are talking too - they think Lupin
and Sirius are spies, and they want them to prove they aren’t, and they have a way to do it.
The runes, Harry realizes, as Alphonse tells Lupin to step into the circle. Those runes in the
dirt - they are for something against Voldemort - for weeding out spies? Is it like
Veritaserum, only you don’t have to bother with getting people to drink it? And Harry hears
Lupin agree, and presumably walk into whatever it is that the chalk circle is doing.
And then there’s choking, and Sirius starts shouting. Shouting for Lupin to get out of there.
Harry swings his wand up at the wall without any spell lined up, then just as convulsively
drops it down again. Sirius is shouting, Lupin is retching, not answering - Harry has to get
inside. He doesn’t know any spells that’ll let him get through the wall besides Reducto, and
that’s going to give away that he’s here for sure. With how Elric thrashed Snape so
effortlessly - if Sirius needs help, Harry will have to surprise them. He has to get inside now .
How?
He doesn’t need magic to climb. The walls aren’t that high. He saw the Unplottable with
dreadlocks do this just yesterday. Harry backs up, jams his wand in his pocket, grabs a fold of
Cloak between his teeth and takes a running leap.
He hits the wall hard, scrabbling, but his fingers catch the top. It’s not quite like trying to
swing yourself back onto a broomstick - nothing at all like it, actually, there’s generally
nothing to dig your toes into in midair - but it uses a lot of the same arm muscles, and Harry
gets a knee over the top.
Something howls, right beneath him, and it startles him so badly he falls right off the wall. It
sounds like a wolf howl, like that night on the Hogwarts grounds in third year, and Harry
scrambles madly to climb up again, nearly tripping headlong in his haste. The howl cuts off
just as quick as it began, just as dirt slips under Harry’s toehold and sends him crashing back
down again.
Then he hears Lupin say he’s alright. This doesn’t stop Harry from trying to climb the wall,
but it does release some of the haste, letting him take the time and see if he can find a
foothold. He completely misses the top and bodyslams into the wall full frontal, though,
when he hears Lupin’s not a werewolf anymore.
They have… some kind of cursebreaker tool? The circle. All the chalk and runes on the
ground - that’s for breaking curses. Aright, Harry thinks, panting through his nose as he runs
up and catches the top of the wall with his fingertips once more. He is never doing anything
like this in the Cloak again. The Unplottables have cured Lupin. That’s good. But they still
trapped Sirius and Lupin in there, and are treating them like they’re going to snap and go
berserk any minute. Harry has to get in there. It’s - the cursebreaking is for him?
“Harry is the spy,” Lupin says.
This time when Harry startles and falls, he lands on the right side of the wall. He hits the dirt
hard, just as Sirius barks “What?”
Harry’s too winded to make a sound, which is probably for the best given no one seems to
have heard him land under Sirius’s incredulity. Sirius, who is waist deep in dirt. Harry spits
out his mouthful of Cloak and tries not to wheeze audibly as he slowly gets to his feet, inches
away from the stadium-light brightness of the glowing runes. He’s made it this far, and Sirius
doesn’t look like he’s buried in the ground because he wants to be, so Harry might have to
take the Unplottables by surprise after all, if they go all violent again. But he also needs to
hear, because they’re still talking - talking about him , about what Dumbledore suspected -
knew -
Harry goes cold, all over. He is possessed, then. Lupin knows it. Has known about it. Sounds
like damn near everyone besides Sirius has known about it. And even the Unplottables have
been lying to Harry: Alphonse Elric said they’d confirmed it, after telling him to his face that
they didn’t know anything and there was nothing to be worried about. And then they keep
talking, and Alphonse tells them that it’s not a curse - that it’s - something worse -
The thought of Voldemort in him - growing, multiplying - Harry’s stomach heaves. There’s
only one thing to do. He throws off the cloak and steps into the light.
Pain sears. Harry feels impact roll through him and dimly realizes he’s fallen to his knees,
clutching at his forehead. Someone is yelling, shouting, Harry can’t - it might be him, he
can’t think, the ground is shaking and the hum keeps rising and rising in pitch. His eyes are
streaming, blurring, he tries to cover his face with his hands but he can still see the light -
going sharper and harder, brighter and brighter, until there’s nothing else, an empty blank
white world.
He’s weightless within it, stretched on the horrible endless ringing of that high-pitched hum.
He’s not sure he’s in his body anymore. He thinks maybe the hum is his own scream.
And then - some great invisible dam cracks, and the pressure slices - outwards, all at once.
Harry’s back arches as his lungs heave, inhaling like he’s shot up out of deep water. He’s on
the ground. His glasses are askew, the blurred shapes across from him strangely doubled;
Sirius, in the dirt, and Lupin, grabbed by Elric. It’s like sound comes back the moment he
notices their mouths are moving - and they’re shouting, their eyes wide -
Something grey and indistinct is boiling up from Harry’s skin, a thick, thrashing fog, emitting
a whistling scream as it’s dragged away from him and directly into the light. The symbols
crackle hungrily, glowing brighter and brighter as the fog is pulled in, spinning like water
swirling down a drain - and it’s over as fast as it begun, the last tendrils scrabbling frantically
at Harry’s skin as the smog dissolves with a final tinny shriek.
Harry can only lay there and beg for breath for the next couple of moments. His eyes don’t
seem to want to unwiden. He feels like a hippogriff sat on him and then wiggled around and
got comfortable to boot. The light is still bright all around him, throbbing, almost as if it has a
pulse. The circle sounds like it’s singing.
“Harry,” Sirius says raggedly. Harry’s eyes refocus. Elric has Lupin with one arm twisted
behind his back, holding him by the nape of his sweater, but Lupin and Sirius were both
staring at Harry, eyes as wide as his own feel.
Harry opens his mouth, coughs, tries again. “That was,” he wheezes extensively, trying to get
his lungs under control, then gives up and wheezes some more. “Voldemort?”
“Don’t see what else it could have been,” Sirius says, slightly shaky. “You - Merlin, Harry,
you alright?”
“Fine,” Harry says, wheezily. His hand’s trembling enough that he nearly pokes himself in
the eye fixing his glasses, but he manages, righting the world.
“That was very dangerous, Harry,” Lupin says, but he sounds relieved, apparently hardly
noticing how Elric has his elbow halfway up his shoulderblades. “Well done.”
Elric drops his grip on Lupin and steps away, wearing an expression Harry last saw on Snape
when Neville managed to blow up not just his own cauldron but the four closest workbenches
as well. “Разьебались все в этом грёбаном сарае,” he snarls. “Ну? Че с ним?”
“Чи поправилась,” Alphonse says, eyes on Harry. “Режь.”
And Elric draws a knife. Harry feels his body try and send some signals to the panic station,
but the adrenaline train has already left and is going as fast as it can go. He tries to at least sit
up, but his limbs feel like wet flannel; he’s barely raised his head by the time Elric neatly
sidesteps Lupin, crouches down and stabs the knife into the dirt, cutting the outermost edge
of the circle.
The light and hum dies. Harry’s gasping is left that much louder in the ringing silence. “What
the fuck,” Elric snarls, “do you think you’re doing.”
“Wha,” Harry manages, then coughs again. He doesn’t feel different, now that his soul’s
been… de-possessed, or whatever… but he definitely feels like he fell off his Firebolt and
into a vat of tapioca and gravel. His whole body feels squashed and bruisable. “What.”
Not that a coherent answer would have satisfied Elric. “You just pop up and decide to jump in
just the fuck anywhere -”
“Well, what can you expect,” Sirius says, sounding relieved and approving now that it seems
like Harry’s brains won’t be dribbling out of his ears on a gush of Voldemort-ectoplasm.
“He’s a Gryffindor.”
“What the fuck does THAT mean? No, shut up, I don’t care! Next time you hop on the giant
idiot pogo stick you call your brain and go bouncing off into the baddest idea you can think
of, I will make you regret!”
Alphonse sighs even as he doesn’t take his eyes off Harry. “You don’t have a leg to stand on,
brother.”
“Oh yes I fuck in do! It’s this one here, the one that got ripped the fuck off by doing exactly
this kinda stupid ass jump in don’t think shit -”
“You stepped into this array this morning,” Alphonse says, now touched with incredulity.
“And I knew the consequences, the margin of error, I had a spotter, I didn’t just pirouette in
thinking everything would be fine -”
“I didn’t think everything would be fine,” Harry snaps, pushing up on his elbows. “I thought
I’d better get Voldemort out of my head before his soul gives birth in it!”
“That was an analogy,” Elric yells.
“Mm, well,” Alphonse says, making an alarming maybe-maybe gesture with one hand. He
still hasn’t taken his eyes off Harry, and while the look isn’t hostile his eyes are very yellow
and very, very focused. “More importantly - where did you come from?”
Harry pushes himself to sit upright, ignoring the way his arms wobble. “What?”
“You didn’t teleport,” Alphonse continues. “You just… appeared.”
They don’t know about the invisibility cloak, Harry realizes, and immediately resolves to do
everything possible to keep it that way. “I apparated.”
“Try again,” Alphonse says, his tone much milder than the coolly incisive look in his eyes.
“Looked like Apparating to me,” Sirius says immediately, briefly locking eyes with Harry
then twisting to Alphonse. “Look - we wanted to keep it quiet, because Harry’s not of age
and it’s against the law to practice without supervision, but with everything going on -”
Not for the first time Harry’s grateful beyond words that his godfather is a Marauder. “If
dementors come after me again, I’d better be able to get away, haven’t I,” Harry says, and it’s
easy to sound annoyed. “I’ve been practicing with Fred and George.”
Alphonse hasn’t even glanced at Sirius. “I see.”
He doesn’t look like he believes them. Harry doesn’t know how he’s going to retrieve the
Cloak, what with Alphonse staring at him like that, but he’ll find a way somehow, and
Alphonse isn’t saying anything else. Elric’s gaze is flicking suspiciously between his brother
and Harry, but his brother deciding not to pursue the issue is apparently enough for him to
stick to just narrowing his eyes and starting to watch Harry too.
“We need to tell Dumbledore,” Lupin says, glancing between them. “This is… he needs to
know. Better sooner than later. If You-Know-Who’s connection has been severed…”
“We should contact the general as well,” Alphonse allows. “And take down some
observations.”
“Great,” Sirius says. “Can I be let out now?”
Alphonse eyes Harry for a moment longer, then smiles and steps back, which prompts Elric
to step forward with a disgusted expression and slap his hands together, thumping the ground.
The dirt walls around them drop as Sirius gets pushed up out of the ground, popping up fast
enough that he flails for balance and grabs for Lupin’s arm.
And Alphonse keeps watching Harry, and Harry watches Alphonse right back. The sword in
his hand looks oddly strange now, like someone else passed by and asked him to hold it for a
minute, instead of just a moment ago where it had been an extension of his arm. A doctor.
Elric had said he handcuffs patients who don’t cooperate. When Alphonse had first shown up
Harry hadn’t believed it. He believes it now. Alphonse knows he’s lying, and he’s smiling at
Harry like it doesn’t upset him at all. Like it doesn’t matter whether Harry lies or not, because
he’s going to get what he wants regardless of anything Harry can do.
The short Elric may be a bastard, but this one is creepy.
All the more reason not to let them know about the Cloak. Harry slowly starts pushing
himself to his feet, faltering enough that Sirius catches his eye, leaves off snipping at Elric for
shooting him out of the ground like a champagne cork and immediately trots over, bending
down to help him up. “All right, Harry?”
“Fine,” Harry says, panting a bit for effect, using Sirius’s body to hide that he’s pulling his
wand. Maybe he can Accio the Cloak to him, if he does it quietly enough and maybe holds
his hand behind his back; he can tuck it in the back of his jeans and have no one the wiser.
He stumbles some more, prompting Sirius to grab him. “Bit of a rough ride, eh?” he says
loudly, which lets Harry say “Accio Cloak,” under his breath, pointing his wand backwards
with one hand and sticking the other behind himself to get ready to catch it.
Nothing happens.
“Accio Cloak,” Harry tries again, even as he realizes - there’s no magic. No rush inside him.
It’s not just the spell not taking - there’s no spell there at all.
“Let’s get you a cuppa,” Sirius continues, patting theatrically at Harry’s jumper like he’s
brushing the dirt off. Harry barely feels it. He stares down at his wand. The wood - usually
warm in his hand, familiar in more than feel, comforting - is cold for the first time he can
remember.
“Harry?” Sirius says, genuine concern in the words now; Harry looks up into his worried
eyes. “Let’s get you inside, yeah?”
“Sirius,” he says, the words feeling thick and slow in his mouth, unwilling. “I think I’m a
muggle.”
Chapter End Notes
me: what’s the dumbest possible reason i can have to explain why harry’s not in the
circle immediately
me: let’s have him fistfight a tree
Chapter 72
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Psycho stares at Hairy like the kid just told them all he has two weeks to live. “What?” he
says. “What?”
“My wand,” Hairy says unsteadily. “It won’t work. I can’t do any magic.”
“Hang on,” Mustache says.
Psycho rounds on Ed. “You turned him into a muggle?”
“We? He popped up out of nowhere,” Ed snaps, which is a way bigger deal than the kid’s
magic stick getting busted. Al isn’t trained to sense qi in combat the way Lan Fan or Ling
are, but his awareness isn’t anything to sneeze at and he definitely would have noticed an
invisible person ten feet away , so if the wizards have some way to block qi -
“I don’t think,” Mustache starts.
“It was your circle,” Psycho cuts over him, glaring at Ed. “Turn him back!”
“Back into what? A possessed person?” Ed demands. “He jumped in his whole ass self after
sneaking around just like you were, and he’s lucky he’s not missing any limbs -”
“I don’t think he’s - merlin’s pants,” Mustache says suddenly, and rushes past Ed with his
stick out. Towards - they all spin around - the bushes, which are on fire.
“Aguamenti!” Mustache shouts, which gets water shooting directly out of his stick like it’s
connected to a tiny invisible firehose. The bushes aren’t just crackling because they’re on
fire, Ed realizes - they’re actively thrashing like some kind of animal, and that’s upsetting
enough on its own without any of this other bullshit thrown in.
Like the fact that a wooden stick can contain or at least teleport enough water to put out a
highly suspect wizard fire and blast it like a rogue car wash nozzle. “As I was saying,”
Mustache says, breathing a little heavily, the waterworks dying off, “I don’t think Hairy’s a
muggle.”
Ed jabs a finger at the charred bushes, now quivering hard enough to be sprinkling droplets
sideways. “What the fuck was that?”
“I’m not sure,” Mustache says. “Serious…?”
“I don’t bloody know, my mum could’ve planted anything back there,” Psycho says
distractedly. “Hairy -”
“I had to set them on fire,” Hairy says, still sounding dazed and staring down at his stick. “To
get them to let me go.”
“Oh,” Psycho says, like this is somehow fine. “Look - try your wand again, yeah? Maybe you
just weren’t concentrating right, after all that -”
“Actually,” Mustache says. “I suspect his wand - it had a connection to Voldemort too, didn't
it?”
“What,” Ed says.
“- so that may be the problem - here, Hairy - try this.”
Mustache then hands the kid his own stick, who stares at it open mouthed for a second before
snatching it up. “His stick was possessed too?” Ed demands, but the wizards all ignore him in
favor of watching the kid like he’s about to perform brain surgery with a bendy straw.
Ed turns to Al and says, “Al, what the fuck is happening,” just as Hairy’s face twists up like
he’s about to take the biggest dump of his life and some sparks fall out of the borrowed stick
like the dying spurts of some sad little firework.
“There you are,” Psycho says, sounding massively relieved. “There you are. Just a broken
wand, see? Go on, give it a wave -”
“He just set fire to half the backyard and you want him to do more?” Ed demands, but
they’re all busy clapping Hairy on the back and congratulating him like the surgery was a
roaring success and the patient with half his brains on the floor is definitely going to live.
“Relax, he’s just throwing sparks,” Psycho says, all geniality, like the charred mass of bushes
by the fence isn’t twitching like a severed gecko tail and making disturbing rattling noises.
“And I bet he was just throwing sparks back there too, huh?” Ed snaps, waving an arm at the
dripping greenery that now probably only qualifies as blackery. “Just a little light wizard fun!
What the fuck else was he doing?”
Hairy glares at Ed, now looking pissed instead of confused and disbelieving, which at least is
some variety given hostility and trauma seem to be his only two settings. “I didn’t do it on
purpose!”
“You weren’t sneaking around on purpose?” Ed says incredulously.
“Oh, as if you have room to talk,” Psycho retorts. “You did the exact same thing - we told
you Grimmauld place isn’t safe, but you went around touching everything anyway and set
buck beak loose -”
“How is that the same thing? I didn’t try to trick anyone and I sure as shit wasn’t setting fires
-”
“He has a point,” Al says.
“Wh - hey!”
“Just because you didn’t burn anything doesn’t mean you didn’t act without fully evaluating
the situation,” Al says, touching his hands together and running one down the length of his
sword, transmuting it back into a cane. That, at least, shuts Psycho’s mouth with a nearaudible click, even though Ed’s a little more preoccupied with how Al just called him a
wizard, even if it is just to make them think he’s the reasonable safe nice one again next to
Ed.
Al meets his eyes as Ed opens his mouth, though, and his face is serious. “Let’s get inside.
We really do need to communicate with the General and the others as quickly as possible.”
Because, Ed realizes, even if Hairy the amateur arsonist over here isn’t broadcasting to
Terrorist HQ anymore, it’s highly possible he was right up until he jumped into the circle.
The circle, which he might have seen work on Mustache, and probably did, given how happy
he was to pop in. He absolutely heard the spy conversation. And if Hairy didn’t teleport into
the yard, then either he got in some other even freakier wizard way, or he was already out
there with them. Just hidden. In a way Al can’t sense.
One of them turns into a dog and the other one can make everything down to the qi invisible.
Wasn’t about to break character, Psycho said. That does not sound like this is the first time
they’ve done this. Where else have they snuck around, undetected? What the hell else have
they overheard?
“Oh, we have big problems,” Ed says grimly, turning back to the wizards. “One of you dial
up your ghost zoo and tell Bones and everybody else to get back to base now . We’re so
fucked we don’t even know how fucked we are.”
“What?” Psycho says confusedly, but Mustache seems to get it, taking his stick back from
Hairy and saying “Expect o Patronum!”
His ghost phone is also a wolf, though not as big and fluffy as Bones’ had been. Ed briefly
wonders if you just pull up a random animal every time or what, because Mustache looks
dismayed for a second when it blooms out of the end of his stick, like he wanted to get a
butterfly or a llama instead. “Tell Madam Bones she is needed urgently, and then tell Molly
Weasley to return with everyone as soon as she can,” he says, and it wheels around and winks
out.
Ed moves to the array and Hairy twitches - almost like he wanted to step into Ed’s way - so
Ed shows some teeth as he moves past, pulling the knife out of the circle’s border. He steps in
and scuffs out three of the anchors with his boot, too, because the way today is going they’re
about to find out that the wizards don’t even need to be alchemists to activate the array or
something. Al’s looking hard at the rattling bushes like he’s not sure whether he’ll have to
bust out the topiary shears, so better safe than sorry. “Inside,” Ed orders Psycho and Hairy,
pointing for them to go, and after an exchange of deeply suspect glances they obey.
Ed doesn’t know what the fuck that’s about, but he’s going to find out. “You too, Mustache,”
Ed says flatly, because the guy’s giving the array a lingering look. “Al?”
“Uh huh,” Al says, apparently deciding the bushes don’t need any pruning because he joins
Ed in herding the damn wizards back into the house.
Luckily Mustang, Hawkeye and Bones all crack into existence in the kitchen before Al can
even close the door, which causes a brief pileup as Ed jerks Psycho back by his shirt to stop
him walking into Hawkeye and the giant rifle strapped to her back. “Whoa,” Psycho says,
staring up at the barrel and making no move to get out of her way; “Watch it,” Ed snaps, just
as there’s a whoosh, some thumps and coughing from one of the sitting rooms.
“Petition to never do this ever again, sir,” Havoc’s voice groans from down the hall, so it’s
probably not horrible demon nightmares come to kill them all, and means every Amestrisan
and everybody who was just out wandering in public is safely back on base. Good. For all
that teleportation is a total fight nightmare the instantaneous travel is real damn convenient.
Al’s got his checked out, feeling-the-qi lack of expression on, which is a good idea given it’s
apparently not a foolproof lifesign detector around here and some of these freaks randomly
turn into dogs. Not like, big human-mix chimeras like Darius or Heinkel, but full on fucking
dogs like Envy. “Yo, Mustang, you’re gonna love this,” Ed says, just as Hughes pops out of
the hall, spots Mustang and says, “Roy! We need to talk.”
“You bet we do,” Ed agrees. “We’re not, like, turbofucked, but it’s close -”
“- and I’d love for you to be in the right frame of mind for this only that’ll be never,” Hughes
finishes, brittle with brightness.
Mustang looks from Hughes to Ed and back, expression setting. “What is it.”
“They have a shapeshifter,” Ed and Hughes say simultaneously, then “What?”, then “Who?”
They both raise their hands to point, then abort halfway through with a reflexive glance at
Mustang.
Mustang stares back at them as the wizards and their kids filter into the kitchen as well,
bookended by Jones and Arget and Havoc. “Really?” he says, drippingly unimpressed.
Ed glances at Hughes again to find him glancing back, which mostly just confirms that
they’re wearing the same deeply mistrusting expression. Mustang narrows his eyes. “I’m
going to find out eventually,” he says evenly.
Hughes swivels to Mustang again. “Sex work is illegal here.”
Ed’s pretty sure he’s never seen Mustang look that particular combination of wrongfooted
and disbelieving, even if it barely lasts a split second and manifests only as the slightest
widening of the eyes. “Also, we’re dealing with two governments, not one,” Hughes
continues before Mustang can open his mouth. “Because their entire financial system is
owned by a completely different species, with their own sovereign state and laws, and their
relationship with humans is, in a word, shitty.”
That is a whole all you can eat spread of what the fuck, but Ed’s not to be outdone, so he
adds, “Also the array works, the kid deleted his forehead soul baby and we cured
werewolfism. Not in that order.”
Ed will say this for Mustang: the guy doesn’t waste time saying shit like ‘what?’ or ‘that’s
crazy! That’s not possible!’. He just looks increasingly like he wishes he’d developed a glue
sniffing habit early enough to give him brain damage severe enough to keep him out of the
military. “Congratulations,” he says, hip-deep in irony. “I’d like to share with you as well. In
the last conflict, fourteen years ago, the ministry’s dementer corps defected en masse to the
terrorists and followed the orders of their lord Voldemort. They are expected to do so again.
They currently number nearly a thousand.”
There’s a short moment of silence. “Okay, I’ll break first,” Hughes says, in the brisk tones of
a man assigning firing squad rota. “What the fuck, Ed?”
“Which part?” Ed asks sarcastically, hands on his hips. “Also you what the fuck, what do you
mean, different species? What, is it more fuckin’ elves?”
“Goblins.”
Ed stares a bit. “Thanks. I hate that.”
“Me too!” Hughes says. “What was that you said about werewolves and soul babies?”
“Well, turns out werewolfness is just a kind of magic herpes or something, and the kid’s
possession problem was stuck onto him as like, a magic fetus type thing,” Ed says sourly. “So
he gave himself an express abortion by fucking with our shit, because apparently now we’re
the god damn Elric Clinic for stupid magic problems -”
“He jumped into the array,” Al says, refocusing on the conversation.
“It’s not a stupid magic problem, it was my soul,” Hairy says belligerently, which makes
them all remember the wizards are there too.
“Yeah, well, turns out your soul can have stupid magic problems. Feel special,” Ed growls.
“It’s like a two-for-one deal on pure undiluted bullshit -”
“Wow!” Hughes returns his wide grin to Mustang. “A thousand?”
Mustang gestures all and more! to Hughes but he’s looking at Ed, eyes sharp. “The array
works?”
“Full throttle,” Ed confirms, because at least there’s that . “But the terrorists might know all
about it already, because turns out Haunted Teen Radio over there has got a way to sneak
around undetected -”
“Completely undetected,” Al says grimly.
“- and he’s been hiding around us for fuck knows how long, broadcasting it all to lord
vegetables along the way.”
“What?” exclaims one of the redheads.
“I didn’t want to be,” Hairy says hotly. “It’s not as though I was doing it on purpose -”
“You were possessed?” Miss Redhead says disbelievingly.
Hairy throws up his hands. “I don’t know! How should I know, when nobody bloody tells me
anything? Oh, it’s all for your own good, hairy, we’ll tell you later, hairy, even though you’re
being chased by dementers and people have already died -”
“You should have told him,” Psycho joins in, though he’s talking mostly at Mustache. “You
should have told us - who else knew?”
He looks at Ponytail and Breakfast Lady, who are looking almost as bewildered and stressy
as the kids and not at all like Mustache, who looks like he’s trying not to wince. “Hairy was
possessed?” Breakfast Lady says.
“But they got rid of it?” Smartypants says urgently, staring at Mustache. “How?
“By breaking my wand,” Hairy says, glaring at Ed.
“They broke your wand?” Not A Twin demands, Breakfast Lady all taken aback beside him.
“And what did I say would happen if you pulled any more shit with your little sticks again?”
Ed demands. That’s not even remotely what happened, but if that’s what Hairy thinks it is
that’s just fine by Ed. How does the telepathy with lord wiffleball work anyway? Does he
automatically know what the kid knows? Does he always just see what Hairy sees? That can’t
be it, otherwise he’d constantly be walking into walls and things - can he just jump in and out
at will, like tuning into a radio station? This shit is such a fucking mess.
Bones, who’s been watching this with a look pretty similar to Mustang’s glue wishes, says,
“You called us back and said it was urgent, Remus.”
“Ah, yes,” Mustache says, and looks at Ed and Al.
Ed can’t say well, if lord watercolor saw the array work through Hairy, he now knows we
have a TKO, because if he has philosopher’s stones he has alchemists and those alchemists
will be able to ID the base array pretty quickly. Even if they don’t guess magic nullifier,
they’ll know the Amestrisans are at the very least capable of making philosopher’s stones of
their own. And what do you do if you know the opponent is bringing a gun to your knife
fight? You do whatever it takes to keep them from using it.
And if you can fucking teleport , it does not take time to get agents in place to take hostages
or just start killing people. It’s an easy peasy double bingo score if all your opponents’ kids
are wandering around defenceless downtown.
So Ed just looks at Mustang, whose expression is cold and calculating and totally stupidcollie free. His eyes tick over Ed’s face, then move to Hairy. “He’s clean now?”
Al nods and so does Ed, though half-grimacing.
“But you don’t know what he saw.”
Ed’s grimace upgrades. “He didn’t -” Psycho starts, but Mustang gives him such a blankly
hostile look that he cuts off, surprised.
“Who are the shapeshifters.”
“Him,” Ed says, pointing at Psycho.
“Her,” Hughes says, indicating the pink-haired woman next to the kids.
Psycho and the pink lady look at each other confusedly - what the fuck does she turn into, a
dog too?- but Mustang’s looked them up and down and is already turning back to Bones. “We
need to determine what leaked and update security. It may be a good idea to inform Albus
and bring in all the other order members as soon as possible.”
“Yes,” Bones says, eyes on Hairy. “Your wand is broken?”
Hairy glares at her, too. Ed will say this for the kid, his hostility is pretty indiscriminate.
“Yeah.”
“Then the trace on it is gone. Depending on how that’s interpreted by the ministry trackers,
they might decide that means he’s dead,” Bones says to Mustang, already drawing her own
magic stick. “Albus needs to know that as well, if he’s going around telling people he hasn’t a
clue where Hairy is.”
Bones expecty-os her ghost phone out - wolf again - as the wizard kids start hissing to each
other, Pinky staring between Mustang and Hughes, Breakfast Lady descending on Hairy and
starting to fuss. “I’m sorry, hold on,” Ponytail says towards Ed and Al, like a man groping for
a life preserver in a sea of angry jello: bewildered, adrift, unsure it’s even possible to get a
grip. “You - what did you do with werewolves?”
Ed gives him a deadeyed look. “We fixed them,” he says. “The one you had, anyway. You’re
welcome.”
Breakfast Lady, Pinky and the wizard kids all turn wall-eyed looks at Mustache, who takes
his stick out, presses the tip to his forearm again and says “Homo loopy Revelio.” It glows
gold again.
That makes them all start exclaiming and crowding and making confused wizard noises.
Mustang turns to Hughes. “Goblins?”
“Goblin country ,” Hughes corrects. “Banking country. If you’re wondering what kind of
sense it makes to have foreign nationals control your currency, don’t ask me, but the good
news is there are avenues to negotiate -”
Al leans in to Ed. “We should go back outside,” he says quietly. Bones has been looking very
hard at both of them since her ghost wolf dispersed and Mustache did his not-a-wolf stick
trick, like she lifted a rock expecting grubs and instead found a cobra nest underneath. “I
don’t want anyone near the array. And how he appeared -“
“Yeah,” Ed says grimly, meeting Bones stare for stare. If a kid like Hairy can fuck around
outside of qi-sense then who the fuck knows what an adult can do. “Yo, Mustang! We’re out
back. Come on out when you’re ready to unfuck the rest of them.”
Chapter End Notes
Al: i just want to remind you whose idea it was to burn our house down that one time
Ed: THAT’S DIFFERENT
alternatively
crookshanks, sitting in a tree on the other side of the yard, washing his paw: all
according to keikaku
Chapter 73
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Okay, what the fuck was that?” Ed demands, the second they’re far away enough from the
house that the rattling of the burned bushes is louder than the voices from inside. “That kid
came out of fucking nowhere?”
“Wait,” Al says, taking Ed’s elbow, hustling them into the null circle and grabbing some
chalk to start reinstating the array again. Ed gets it a second later; he crouches down and
connects the aspects as Al presses a hand down and activates the circle. “Now we can talk.”
“Yeah, so once more with feeling: what the fuck,” Ed says impatiently. “You couldn’t feel
him at all?”
“There wasn’t any qi where he was standing,” Al confirms, equal parts grim and weirded the
fuck out. “It wasn’t anything like the inversions that happen when they teleport, it was just -
like a light flipping on.”
“Oh, for fuck’s sake.” Ed drags his hands down his face. “Is it a- nother kind of teleporting?
Teleporting two? Teleporting but worse?”
“Probably not teleporting, given how hard they were trying to convince us it was,” Al says,
arms crossing and foot starting an irritable one-two tap. On a less fucked day Ed will ask him
whether he’s aware he picked that up from Mei. “This, plus the fact that their shielding
disrupts transmutation - can we test this, properly, without letting on that the array strips the
whole magical spectra? Or that I can sense qi?”
“That is what happened to the kid’s wand, right? What the fuck did they say about it being
connected to lord wader boots?” Ed demands.
“We should test the objects,” Al says, nodding to the pile of random crap Mustache had
floated on out here - the cursed shit, presumably. From here it looks like a music box, some
pens and some weird tacky jewelry; when Ed squints he can see the shimmer over it all,
almost hidden in the grass. “If it strips them too, then it probably was just the intended effect
working on a magical object.”
“Yeah, because if the stick also had freaky qi you would’ve noticed,” Ed agrees.
“Not unless there’s been a way to mask qi all along,” Al says unhappily.
That is. A point. O...kay. Their ace in the hole might not be infallible, but it’s not like they
were counting on it from the start - the nullification array works, which is the critical thing,
and while qi-sense is an incredible asset they don’t need it to kick ass: Ed and Al managed
without it just fine on their last apocalypse. Though Ling and Fu and Lan Fan and Mei were
all there then, working only slightly at cross-purposes to whatever the hell Ed and Al and the
rest were trying to do.
Then an idea strikes. “Was it like. An absence? Qi is everywhere, right? In everything?
Astronomers track stuff they can’t see sometimes by the behavior of the stuff around it -”
“- so if there’s nothing where there should be something,” Al says, catching on instantly. “I
don’t know, I wasn’t paying enough attention then - maybe?”
The light of the null array dies down and then fades out entirely around them, because they
haven’t incorporated the self-sustaining feedback loop yet. “I haven’t noticed anything like
that,” Al finishes, frowning as he steps out.
Ed follows, saying, “Okay, so, you stay on the lookout for holes, and I’ll - so about that
barbecue,” he swerves, hearing the door to the house open. “The question is, open grill or
closed oven? What are we cooking?” Now that he’s saying it, though, it occurs that he is
hungry and only liable to get hungrier. “Shit, we don’t even have a marinade started.”
“Why don’t you start making a firepit,” Al says, eyes over Ed’s shoulder, which means it’s
definitely a wizard that came out.
When Ed glances over, he sees it’s Bones - by herself. “They don’t need you inside?” Ed says
to her, which as polite as his why the hell are you heres get even if they don’t want to make
her think they’re hiding anything out here.
“They’re talking about goblins,” she says, coming to a stop a few feet away from them. “Bill
Weasley has far more insight there than I do.”
Ed scowls. Goblins or no goblins, if she left Mustang to get up to speed on the local money
politics without supervision then either she’s a lot dumber than she looks or Mustang snowed
her so hard in the last couple of hours that she now believes he’s both utterly harmless and
completely trustworthy. “Is there something we can help you with?” Al asks, managing to
make get lost anyway sound all helpful and polite.
Bones’ gaze travels over their workspace, lingering on the array. “So there was something in
the boy,” she says. “And it connected him to Voldemort?”
Al cocks his head slightly. “You didn’t think there was?”
Bones shrugs slightly. “Albus suggested as much, but it’s not as though there was evidence.”
Her eyes pass over the circle again. “He also has a background in alchemy. It makes me
wonder what you found that he couldn’t. Though, of course,” she adds, in a slightly different
tone, “he’s not a specialist.”
Oh, Mustang got to her good, and she’s telling them so. “Beardy’s an alchemist?” Ed says
sharply.
“He studied it when he was younger,” Bones says. “Though I can’t say if what we have has
much overlap with yours. I know he was involved enough to make original discoveries in the
field.”
Ed and Al stare at her. That is not just some casual youthful hobby time. “He said he’d never
heard of it being used in combat,” Ed says sharply, flicking over what Beardy had said about
alchemy; they seriously need to get their hands on some of their books. “That true?”
“I certainly haven’t,” Bones says frankly. “Our alchemists work with potion makers. Those
who aren’t researchers mostly brew medicines. Albus was a researcher as well - he
discovered the twelve uses of dragon’s blood.”
Ed decides then and there that dragon’s blood is just a stupid wizard name for calcium
carbonate or something and that he’s not fucking changing his mind without dear fucking
necessity. “But you got rid of it,” Bones says like she’s confirming, saving Ed from skidding
any further down that mental waterslide. “Breaking his wand broke the connection?”
“It may have helped,” Al says diplomatically. “While we are familiar with some of the
principals at work here, magic and how it behaves is still very new to us.”
“Why didn’t anybody say there was something wrong with the wand?” Ed demands.
“Everybody going back and forth on whether he was possessed or not and nobody thought to
mention that?”
Bones frowns. “I hadn’t known there was anything wrong with it. Not until potter mentioned
you breaking it to destroy the link. I’d assumed the interference during his duel with
Voldemort was simply instability caused by their wands having identical cores - though it
makes sense, if Voldemort had used that to bind himself to the boy’s mind. If anyone could
figure out how, he could,” she finishes darkly.
“Instability caused by identical cores?” Ed repeats. “What the fuck’s… never fucking mind.
Where is it? Does the kid still have it?” He glances around; no stick. “The kid still has it.
Okay, we’re gonna need that for observation. If it re-ups itself like the wizards did we’re
gonna need to zap it again.”
“Get rid of it completely,” Al corrects. “We shouldn’t risk it reactivating again. We can test
whether objects reinstate themselves using these.”
He gestures to the cursed junk just as the back door opens again: this time it’s Mustache and
Ponytail pushing through, both looking kind of wild around the eyes. “Eric,” Ponytail says,
zeroing in on them.
“Elric,” Mustache corrects, but he’s hustling over too.
“What fucking now?” Ed demands.
“How did you do it?” Ponytail demands.
“A good gym routine and a lifelong passion for science,” Ed says sarcastically, because that’s
pretty much always the answer whether it’s what people are looking for or not. “What the
fuck’s gone up your nose about me now?”
“I’m a cursebreaker,” Ponytail says intently, looking from him to Al. “You cured a werewolf.
It’s one of the most complex curses there is, it embeds itself in the body so comprehensively
that nothing can get it out - it’s in the blood. Loop in said you’d made a tool -“
“The circle,” Mustache says, indicating the array. “They - activated it, and I stepped in, and it
was - removed. Just like that.”
He looks struck all over again by this whole brouhaha, and abruptly goes for Al. Ed tenses
enough to shift one leg back into stance, but the guy stops short and kind of makes an aborted
hand-out gesture before putting it over his heart instead. “Thank you,” he tells Al, eyes
dangerously shiny-looking. “Sincerely, thank you. I - I don’t know that this is what you set
out to do, but you - you’ve cured - you’ve done something revolutionary. So many people -”
he breaks off, clearing his throat.
Ed loosens a bit when it becomes obvious what’s going on, and Al smiles like he didn’t
threaten the guy with group discount decapitation twenty minutes ago. Doctors. “I’m glad,”
he says, sticking his hand out like he’s gonna let the wizard handshake him. “We did come
here to help, in whatever way we can.”
Mustache takes it, pumping vigorously up and down. “Even if it is temporary - the fact that it
can be done at all is - tremendous. Simply tremendous.” He turns to Ed too, looking
alarmingly open to body contact. “You have my thanks.”
“Do not hug me,” Ed warns. This isn’t the first patient interaction like this he’s seen - plenty
of people thank Winry and Granny after they do something painful and gross to them, and
clearly the same goes for Al too - but Ed’s not a medical professional for a reason. “It was all
Dr. Elric here.”
Al shoots him a mild-mannered dumpling of a look with pissy filling. “It was a joint effort.”
“He’s right,” Ponytail puts in. “A cure for werewolves - no one has managed it, ever. And it
turns out it is possible, with alchemy - well, unplottable alchemy, I suppose - yours isn’t
remotely like potion making, I think.” He eyeballs their chalk. “If you don’t mind - how does
it work?”
Ed’s about to open his mouth and feed them a nice long line of jargon-heavy horseshit when
the house door opens again - and it’s Hawkeye this time, thank fuck. And she’s carrying the
Kerchatka. “Oh fuck yeah - hey, here,” Ed says, casting around for the pack full of cartridges
Al had made and going to her, glad to have an excuse to get out of the patient postmortem;
Al’s the medical miracle man, he can bullshit with the best of them. “We made like… what,
fifty?”
“Seventy-five,” Al calls.
“And bastard said he’d do the charges, but he can add that after we check the fit,” Ed
finishes. “Can I see?”
Hawkeye trades him the pack for the rifle. Ed takes it in both hands, frowning as he weighs it
and feels out the composition. “I can take… maybe half a K out of this,” he says aloud,
refocusing on her face. “I don’t wanna fuck with it too much, but -”
“Not the barrel,” Hawkeye says, hooking her elbow through the pack strap to take the rifle
again.
“No, just stock. I can do a…” Ed trails off as he claps, pressing his hands to the gun.
Discharge crackles over the metal, arcing between his and Hawkeye’s hands as he reshapes
the interior, visualizing both the lithograph of four different railway bridge designs from
Bridge & Dam: Design in Civil Engineering and that cross-section of bird bones he saw in
one of the Grand Anatomy volumes. “... strut matrix,” he finishes, the extracted chromoly
falling into his hand as it detaches, shaped like a pair of knuckledusters. He offers them to
Hawkeye. “Also, do you want this to be like. Black?”
“Nonreflective,” Hawkeye agrees, hefting the rifle, then places it down butt-first at her side to
take the brass knuckles. She inspects them, checks the fit, then pockets one set and hands the
other back to Ed. “Black or dark gray.”
“You got it,” Ed says, grinning a little to himself as he also stows his set. Matchy. He’s
absolutely the work wife. “It’s gonna take me some extra stuff but I can do that today. How’s
the cartridge fit?”
They get to checking the bullets; Bones, Ed notes, is splitting her attention between them and
Al with the ex-werewolf interest group. “When you say the curse is in the blood,” Al is
saying to the wizards, “what do you mean, exactly? Do curses attach themselves to specific
parts of the body…?”
“Did Bones tell you guys Beardy’s an alchemist?” Ed says to Hawkeye, keeping his voice
low under the crackle of resizing their test cartridge. Her eyes flick up; Ed nods a bit. “She
says she’s never heard of combat alchemy either. But she also says he was a researcher and
made original discoveries.” Hawkeye tilts her head slightly, watching the rifle’s bolt as she
clears the chamber, so Ed continues, “He hasn’t lied to us, exactly? Not in anything he’s said
so far. I think. And he’s not like, good at covering up that there’s some fucky fuckin’ shit
going on in his kennel, so -“
The back door busts open again, and this time it’s Beardy himself who comes sweeping out,
even more intense than Ponytail and Mustache combined. He goes straight for them, his
senile grandpa expression gone grimly forbidding, though the effect is a little bit ruined by
how his dress - dark purple today - is the wrong fabric weight to flare dramatically instead of
just kinda flapping around his ankles. “What have you done?” he says sharply as Mustang
and Hughes and some more wizards all exit behind him, everybody just coming out back into
the yard like some kind of reverse clown car. “You say you’ve severed -“
Beardy stops short halfway to them, eyes snapping to the array. “His soul,” he breathes.
“What have you done?”
Beardy is an alchemist. And he recognizes, at least on surface, the array for philosopher’s
stones.
Al straightens up. Hawkeye lays the Kerchatka on the ground and stands, hands out by her
sides. Behind Beardy, Mustang’s gaze bores into the back of his head, and Hughes takes one
big prudent step backwards.
“We abso-fuckin’-lutely did not touch his soul,” Ed says slowly, also turning to fully face
Beardy, hands opening but still by his sides. “You can tell, by the way there’s no blood and
dismembered bodies and screaming. Read the intake notation, alchemist. That look like
human transmutation to you?”
Beardy’s eyes rise to Ed’s and stay there. “The alchemies of our worlds are not the same.”
“But not different enough,” Ed says flatly. “What have you been doing, to know what the
fuck you’re looking at?”
Beardy’s silent a long moment, just holding Ed’s stare. “I know you have questions.”
“They aren’t the only ones,” Bones says. She’s standing off to the side, closer to Ponytail and
Mustache than anyone else, but where they’re looking like kids who just walked in on their
parents fighting the look she’s giving Beardy is pretty stony.
“I will answer,” Beardy says, still watching Ed. “But I have a question as well, and mine may
mean time works against us. You say you’ve removed the piece of Voldemort’s soul from
Hairy - is this true? You are certain?”
There’s a couple of low gasps from the wizards by the house as he says piece of soul , like
they didn’t think it was true until Beardy said it . “Yes,” Al says unsmilingly. “We’re certain.”
Beardy’s gaze transfers to him. “When was this? Exactly?”
What the fuck does that have to do with anyhting? “Why?” Ed says suspiciously.
“Sever us was summoned by Voldemort,” Beardy says, grim. “Just this morning. If the timing
coincides on your ridding hairy of the connection and sever us’s summons, then we have all
but proof that he has seen what Hairy saw.”
Chapter End Notes
ed, al and dumbledore all standing around in 3 way spiderman point meme
Chapter 74
Chapter Notes
Hello everyone! It is 4/14/2021 and I am rewriting and reposting chapters 74 and 75 (bc
i made a big plot whoopsie) of Snipers, so this is your official notice that
1. You’re not crazy, it did change
2. If you want the old version, I have a saved pdf; hop onto the discord and request it
and we’ll get it to you
Shine on u crazy diamonds
See the end of the chapter for more notes
Roy really shouldn’t be surprised: leave Fullmetal alone for ten minutes, his brother gets
kidnapped by teleporting teenagers; leave him alone for two hours, he breaks magic and
invents a new kind of exorcism. Leave him alone for two and a half hours and he’s in a
standoff with the local political linchpin - who is also apparently an alchemist - and has
practically laid out the blueprints for one of alchemy’s most dangerous secrets. In front of
practically every eyewitness possible. At volume.
Though given he recognized the base array as a soul-binder, it seems Albus already knew
about the secret of philosopher’s stones.
“Hold on,” Black says sharply, from where he’s clustered with the children by the doorway.
“The Fidelius is still in effect, isn’t it? Even if he did see something -”
But Bones’ eyes have widened and then gone grim. “Not being able to find it doesn’t mean
they can’t still cock us up. When was it?”
That’s to Edward. “Like twenty minutes ago,” he says caustically, standing over the array
he’s completed, tested and executed directly against Roy’s express orders. Roy’s own
mistake, to be honest: he knows how to make an order stick with Edward, but he’d been
distracted. “We weren’t exactly looking at a clock.”
Albus doesn’t do anything so explicit as exhale in relief, but his posture shifts enough to
broadcast he finds this a positive outcome. “Sever us felt the call shortly after we left for the
ministry.”
“This isn’t evidence that he did not have access,” Roy says, because while there are times to
let Fullmetal talk this is not one of them. Roy is not looking for a direct confrontation with
Albus, not now and ideally not ever, not least because there’s still so much they don’t know
about wizards - like, oh, their alchemy - and as things stand he’s going to have a hard enough
time keeping Edward from saying some damn fool thing about his personal experience with
soul transmutation. Better to deflect them all now. “Director. If this location is compromised -
what are our options?”
“We stay put,” Bones states. “For now. Fidelius erases the location, but if Voldemort knows
it’s Grimmauld place and cross-references it with black properties - they may not be able to
find the building itself, but they can surround its approximate location and shut off flue
access. Everyone would have to apparate out or create portkeys for each trip. And we
wouldn’t be able to bring in anyone new.”
“Why haven’t they done that already?” Maes says bluntly, shifting out to the side so that he’s
still behind Roy but no longer between him and the door. “What’s stopped them from feeding
Mr. Snape some of your truth serum and forcing him to expose us all?”
“Being a perfect Ocklumens protects him from the dark mark, to an extent,” Albus says
without looking away from the array. “It was a lucky stroke. The dark mark renders one
incapable of lying to Voldemort, so he does not bother with verita serum and thinks sever us
can tell him only the truth.”
That is nowhere near airtight. “We need a secondary location,” Bones says brusquely,
apparently on the same wavelength. “We need to start preparing a backup with Fidelius now,
not later. Right now the plan is to scatter if compromised -” this said directly to Roy - “but it
will no longer suffice.”
“I fear you may be right,” Albus says, leaving off scrutinizing the circle to look at the rest of
the wizards. “Molly. May we prevail upon you to use the burrow?”
Molly Weasley’s face flashes with startlement, uncertainty, fear and then determination. “Of
course, Albus. Of course.”
“Please go there directly.” Albus’ serious gaze sweeps further. “Tonks, bill, Arthur - you
know the groundwork for the Fidelius. I must ask you to begin without me. Take the children
- it must appear as though you have all arrived from diagonally, returning from an uneventful
shopping trip. Send patronuses to Dedalus and Emmaline and have them over for tea until we
can complete the Fidelius. We cannot afford to be caught off guard. Hairy,” he continues,
locking eyes with the boy. “I’m afraid I must ask you to stay for the time being. As you are
currently officially missing and must stay as such, we cannot risk you being located, even
without your wand.”
So Albus can give orders, and think tactically, and be obeyed: a general after all. Sending
away the majority of witnesses, under a pretense that is actually a very good reason, would be
a maneuver Roy would support out of sheer common sense if not for the fact that allowing
Albus to stabilize his position may prove highly disadvantageous later. Roy could argue that
sending civilians from a secure location to an unsecured one is folly at best, but given that
this group already has serious problems managing secure information, getting as many
people as possible away from any potential reveal of how philosopher’s stones are made is a
higher priority.
But then Bones steps forward, a staying hand raised towards the Weasleys. “Hold on a
moment, Albus,” she says. “Mad eye should determine whether the burrow would be our best
option, before we go expending time and energy on the Fidelius. He has the most experience
establishing safehouses, and he can go alone, discreetly, or better yet with shackle bolt. We
shouldn’t be moving regardless, until we know what exactly you know who wanted from
Snape. Pretending normalcy isn’t as important as staying alive. Right now we don’t know
why Snape was summoned, and we don’t know what you know who might have found out.
Could be there’s death eaters already lying in wait at all our homes, not just in the burrow.”
The twist of her mouth can’t be called a smile. “Remember how my brothers died?”
And that very clearly roots the Weasleys. Arthur’s face pales and Molly’s hands grip tight on
her childrens’ shoulders. “So until Snape returns we shall just have to wait,” Bones
concludes, her tone brooking no argument. “Now - what is this alchemy, Albus?” Her eyes
are sharp on Albus’ face: asking a fellow wizard for an explanation, not the Amestrisans who
made it, which is a neat little step to maintain her position on the wizarding side even if she
did just directly countermand their leader. “What’s this about tampering with souls?”
“We told you, this array doesn’t affect souls,” Edward starts, but Roy hardly has to glance at
Riza next to him; she shifts her weight, not even moving into Edward’s line of sight, and his
mouth shuts with a near-audible click.
Albus is also looking at Edward. “So you say, and I must believe you,” he says soberly, by all
appearances accepting both topic change and Bones’ public override of his orders. “When
you called yourself an expert on soul transmutation I thought it to be a medical study only,
the way our healers study the comatose and the victims of obliviation, those whose bodies are
damaged but whose souls must still carry their whole selves. But this - I have only seen
circles like this once, in my studies with Flamel. And he only shared that alchemy too has its
branch of dark arts, and that should I see an array like this I should never attempt to activate
it, only know it for the danger it is.”
And isn’t that a cute little bit of deflection, Roy registers, as the wizards all look alarmed and
Edward makes dire eye contact. Roy tries to telepathically strangle him away from saying
anything that even rhymes with necromancy. “Alphonse,” he says aloud. “You were working
within his qi, were you not?”
“Yes,” Alphonse says easily, as calm and unaffected as he’d been inking the alkahestric array
onto Roy’s forearm and sinking the needle into his skin: routine procedure, nothing to worry
about here. “That is what this array is designed to target: the frequency patterns of malicious
qi. It’s how we were able to remove the werewolf curse from Mr. loop in.”
This turns everyone's attention to Lupin, who gives a slightly embarrassed nod of agreement,
as if to prove that he is both cured and still very much full of soul. “Lots of arrays look
similar,” Edward adds sourly. “Especially to laymen. A water synthesis array looks a hell of a
lot like the first stage of a hydrogen explosive, but that doesn't mean we freak out every time
some two-bit alchemist decides to water his garden. And it’s why we don’t mess with arrays
we don’t know, because if you just decide to jump right in without a single fuckin’ clue what
you’re doing -”
“You said it was my soul,” an angry teenage voice cuts in - it’s the Hairy boy, shaken off his
cluster of compatriots and standing with fists tight slightly ahead of them. “You said
Voldemort was in me and that he was going to give birth -”
“And you said it was because of the wand being connected to lord waterballoon,” Edward
fires back immediately. “What the fuck’s up with that?”
“Give birth?” Bones says, sharp with incredulity.
“I believe that may be part of the language barrier,” Alphonse says placidly. “It was an
analogy to describe the attachment and I’m not sure it came across in translation.”
“And his wand?” Roy says, before they can start a derailment that will only get them medical
jargon from Alphonse.
“When two wands have an identical core, using them in a duel against one another can cause
a certain… reaction,” Albus says after a short moment, and Bones nods, though she’s still
eyeing Hairy like she expects his forehead to split and reveal flesh-eating spiders. “A
connection can form, and neither wizard is able to cast spells until it destabilizes and breaks.
Any magic channeled through the wands while so connected is absorbed into that
connection.”
Edward squints his way through that. “Like when Scar tried to blow your arm off again and
you cancelled him out,” Alphonse tells him helpfully. “I think.”
A timely reminder that compared to Fullmetal’s usual array testing practices, this morning
was practically a twelve-step peer review with a full safety inspection, independent oversight
panel and head to toe body armor for everyone involved. Roy should probably be grateful he
didn’t come back to the Hairy boy strapped down in the middle of the circle with Alphonse
halfway through an open heart surgery. This is why he keeps Fullmetal’s leash long: it’s so
much easier to deal with when he can just point wide-eyed at the successful results and claim
plausible deniability.
“I think we would all benefit from knowing what, exactly, it was that you did to Hairy,”
Albus says.
“Okay, firstly, he did it to himself, because he and the fuckin’ dog-deal pervert here were
sneaking around fucking shapeshifted and invisible. Do not think I’m going to forget about
that,” Edward says sharply, pointing at Black. “Secondly, the only thing we did was build a
node matrix that targets very specific EM frequencies and creates a null field that absorbs all
the relevant energy. He’s the one who jumped in -”
“It absorbs certain kinds of magic,” Alphonse says, cutting him off. “Getting Hairy free of
invasive influence was our priority, so we developed an array that would disrupt the flow
of… what you call dark magic and dissipate it safely. We didn’t anticipate that it would affect
werewolves, but as it targets malicious energies, it’s unsuprising that it cleansed you -”
another nod to Lupin - “and the tainted wand.”
Roy makes a mental note to get Alphonse an actual contractor agreement drawn up, with
accordingly hefty compensation. It’s a neat bit of bullshit - ‘ malicious’ certainly has no
alchemathematical signifier - and it fits so well in the schema of alkahestry, qi systems and
the wizards’ own methods of light-dark categorization. They will have to make it clear soon
what it is the array really does, as it’s not going to be feasible or wise to execute joint
operations with the allies they’re dependent on kept in the dark, but not in front of a crowd
and especially not this one, having proven itself so thoroughly vulnerable to security
breaches. If Albus is bothering to exhibit military leadership - and Bones is making her own
moves - then she needs to know the resources available to her, but right now the situation is
too much a mess as it is.
Still, they need to make it convincing, and for that Roy believes their original testing plan
will still suffice. He gestures at Fullmetal. “Demonstrate.”
Fullmetal makes a tch noise - he probably thinks it sounds less like a sneezing pomeranian
than it does - and turns on his heel to his array, the circle igniting at his touch. “What exactly
will you be demonstrating?” Albus says, as polite as his gaze is piercing on the array.
“Your shit,” Edward says impatiently, gesturing at a small pile of junk on the ground. “Which
one of you can stick in here, given how gung ho you got about not touching it.”
“We wanted to test cursed objects first, before we applied it to people, to make sure
everything functioned as intended,” Alphonse explains, somehow managing to sound both
professionally abashed and pointedly reproving. “But events moved… out of our hands.”
Roy doesn’t believe for a second that Alphonse did not take control of at least part of what
had occurred: the Elrics wouldn’t be standing around discussing the postmortem if things
really had gotten out of control. “I believe you were levitating them,” Alphonse continues, to
Lupin, gesturing at a small pile of glinting junk in the grass between them. “Would you help
us in our demonstration? I think Mr. Black mentioned you have the relevant expertise with
curses.”
“If it cured a wear wolf I don’t think that lot’s going to give you much trouble,” Bill Weasley
says, eyes fixed on the array.
“Results aren’t real until they’re reproducible,” Alphonse says serenely. “Besides, I’m sure
your observations will be invaluable. We aren’t the experts in magic, after all.”
“I… yes,” Lupin says, stepping forward and drawing his wand. “I’d be happy to help.”
The rest of the wizards look like they’re not quite sure what to do with the entire concept, the
expressions ranging from skeptical to baffled to apprehensive. Bones’ own face is assessing,
eyes narrowed; she doesn’t look disbelieving, but she’s clearly understood there’s no point
committing to a reaction now when the claim is about to be tested right in front of her. Albus
is less readable, beyond a clear focus on Fullmetal and the array: looks can be deceiving, but
Roy is downgrading the senility hypothesis in probability anyway.
The object Lupin chooses looks like a dusty, dully faded music box, its lid popped and a
scuffed-up figure of a woman in some kind of dancer’s pose sticking out. “Wing guard levy
Osa,” he recites, wand pointed, which lifts the box to about waist height and sends it bobbing
over into the array.
The second it crosses over the threshold the entire circle flares white, the box dropping like a
stone, purplish light flickering wildly over its surface before being redirected almost instantly
into the energy pathway of the inscribed array. There’s a faint creaking yelp of music,
distorting strangely and then abruptly cutting off as the light dies back down - and then just
the array, glowing steadily, with the magic box lying inert and somehow even duller just
inside its borders. The whole thing lasted less than three seconds.
Edward proceeds to reach in, pick up the box in one hand and toss it up and down, catching it
on the edge. “That was a lot fuckin’ faster than last time, but you get the gist,” he says.
“Here. Catch.”
He tosses it to Lupin, who to his credit hardly fumbles before catching it to his chest. “See?
No more curse,” Edward says. “Now pop the rest of that shit in, let’s see what happens.”
“It… does appear to have been cleared,” Lupin says, carefully changing his grip on the thing
in the manner of a man who has caught a grenade and only after realized it to be a training
dummy. “Evalare.”
That’s with his wand pointed at the box, which does nothing. Lupin glances at Albus and
Bones, then begins levitating the rest. One after another the items produce more or less the
same result, with only minor variations in the intensity and color of light. Edward watches it
all with a critical look, the ditch between his brows dug deep in the familiar look of
dangerous concentration that Roy has always privately felt shouldn’t so deceptively resemble
an angry pug. “Throw all that last shit in together,” Edward orders, gesturing at the remaining
cluster of garbage in the grass when there are only three or four items left. “Multiple points of
interaction, let’s go.”
The grouped items go much the same way as their predecessors. “A universal cursebreaker,”
Bill Weasley says intently as the last of the lights die down, leaving just a pile of junk just
inside the outermost line. “And no analysis of the curse necessary beforehand. That’s going
to save so much time.”
“And it doesn’t do shit to souls,” Edward adds pointedly to Albus, stepping inside over the
border with hardly a flicker and kicking at the inert shell of the music box. “See how mine
didn’t go pop out like a champagne cork.”
“Unfortunately, it also seems to negate whatever field is generated by the translation stones,”
Alphonse adds, which explains the wizards’ sudden incomprehending expressions. “So from
in there you can’t understand him, and he can’t understand you.”
Which creates an opportunity for truly secure communications, Roy recognizes, without
having to resort to passing notes. He’s not going to bet on Bones speaking no Amestrisan, but
that’s not enough to mitigate the advantage. “We’re not exactly sure yet why this happens,”
Alphonse says in perfect scholar’s innocence. “But I’m sure we’ll be able to work around it
when we make the next prototype.”
“The stones are goblin make,” Bill Weasley offers, eyes still glued to the circle, though he
doesn’t exactly sound convinced. “Their magic is… different from ours, so maybe…,”
“You wanted to know how we fuckin’ fixed your kid, that’s how,” Edward interrupts,
stepping back out of the circle again. “And we can do the same to any fucking else fuckin’
cursed thing you got. And now I got a couple questions for you, Beardy, about what the hell
you’re doing with alchemy -“
There’s a crack from behind Roy - from right in the middle of the Amestrisan contingent.
Roy sees Riza whip out her .45 cal even as he spins himself, the group parting around the
noise, everyone going for their sidearms as they try to see who just teleported into their
midst. Then - “Elf!” Jones says urgently, and there’s some highly nonregulation hopping and
dodging as everyone tries to ready their weapons appropriately without actually aiming at
each others’ kneecaps.
Roy’s halfway through an oxygen chain - arcing overhead, because if someone gets off a shot
it’s liable to spark - but he realizes the elf is trying to run away from them before he finalizes
the target: it’s dodging arthritically around Arget’s legs, grimy loincloth flapping as it skids to
the edge of Fullmetal’s array - and throws down a small glinting shape, straight at the ground,
like a rugby player scoring a goal.
Light flares instantly, accompanied by a shrill teakettle scream and a sudden spurt of gray
fog. It rises above the array only to get dragged back down again, a vortex forming as the
energy follows the path of the circle and takes the boiling smog with it. The entire process is
as fast as it is violent: within seconds the thrashing, shrieking thing has been torn apart,
sucked down into the actinic sigils of light.
“What,” Edward says into the ringing silence, “the fuck.”
Chapter End Notes
No funny author note this time. If you’re in the USA and eligible to vote this coming
Tuesday - do it. You do it, your family does it, your friends do it. Your personal internet
anime fanfiction weeb spouse chad does it. Edward Elric would do it, only he lives in a
fascist dictatorship and can’t. We don’t want to live in a fascist dictatorship, do we?
So vote.
Chapter 75
Chapter Notes
Hello everyone! It is 6/15/2021 and I am rewriting and reposting chapters 74 and 75 (bc
i made a big plot whoopsie) of Snipers, so this is your official notice that
1. You’re not crazy, it did change
2. If you want the old version, I have a saved pdf; hop onto the discord and request it
and we’ll get it to you
Shine on u crazy diamonds
See the end of the chapter for more notes
The elf begins dancing, which is not something Roy would have predicted as the follow-up
move. Havoc’s now planted approximately three inches from Roy’s shoulder, so Roy gestures
sharply for them to move closer to the circle, bringing their group parallel to Riza and
Fullmetal and taking them all out of each others’ lines of fire. Jones and Arget are flanking
Maes, which is exactly where they should be - while they’re both valuable specialists in their
own right, as far as Roy is concerned the primary purpose of their existence is to be Maes’
service dogs. The elf doesn’t look like it’s about to be hostile - currently occupied with
croaking “Creature has succeeded! Creature has not failed master!”- but it had teleported
right in the middle of his men, with no warning and an agenda of its own. Roy’s not about to
stand anyone down.
“The fuck did you just peg in here?” Edward snaps directly at the elf, hands loose and arms
slightly spread in that deceptively open stance. “The other cursed shit didn’t do that.”
The elf completely ignores him, hopping geriatrically up and down and croaking halfcomprehensible self-praise. At least the wizards look equally as stunned: more than one wand
is pointed its way. “Creature!” the convict barks. “Answer him!”
What follows is a fractured, convoluted story about Black having a brother, and this brother
joining the terrorists, then getting murdered by zombies. This is a group effort, as told by the
elf, the convict and the ex-werewolf. The flow of information is not improved by the fact that
the elf’s speech patterns differ from the wizards’ enough to compromise the translation stones
further. The racist rhetoric, however, comes through just fine.
After asking for clarification regarding the zombies - Fullmetal’s already thunderous
expression darkening further with this additional checkmark in the philosopher’s stones
column - Roy decides to stop asking questions, mostly on the basis that the wizards are
peppering the elf with their own. Apparently the Black brother had turned traitor slash double
agent and no one else knew save for the elf - this is big news for the convict - and the
destruction of a locket was the brother’s dying wish.
Which the elf just fulfilled. Via the Elrics’ array. Hence the dancing.
“It seems your cursebreaker is powerful indeed,” Albus says, very thoughtful and not looking
all that happy about it, having spent the past ten minutes alternately demanding dates and
locations from the elf and intermittently zapping the now fairly battered locket with various
spells from his wand. “I believe we have just uncovered another piece of Voldemort’s soul.
And destroyed it.”
Well. Alright. Roy’s still not certain whether these soul fragments are directly analogous to
homunculi, given they’re expected to be only semi-ambulant and this locket necklace was
pretty clearly designed to be hidden, not for independent movement. So far the enemy
wizards and alchemists remain the biggest threat. Right now Roy is more interested in how
the slight edge to Albus’ expression indicates he isn’t thrilled with some aspect of the
situation, despite the fact that this is ostensibly exactly what his operational priority was.
“Isn’t that what you wanted to happen?” Maes says for Roy, managing to be pointed without
sounding confrontational.
“Not if we have just alerted Voldemort to the fact that we are aware of his whore cruxes and
actively hunting them,” Albus says, his eyes sharp on the elf even though his tone is more
resigned than anything. “We do not know what other safeguards Voldemort may have put in
place. And if he cannot be killed unless his whore cruxes are already destroyed - I had
rathered that we not tip our hand, and spur him to make even more and hide them beyond
anyone’s reach.”
That’s a very good reason, which also makes it a very good excuse. Roy doesn’t think Albus
is not an ally, not with all the information they’ve gleaned so far, and neither does Maes: he’d
have signalled by now if at any point that had changed. More importantly, they cannot afford
to alienate Albus now.
“Okay, well, your lemon guy is with him right now, ain’t he? If this is such a big fucking deal
and lord wickergate has noticed, then your snitch can come back and tell us,” Fullmetal says
impatiently. “Then we’ll find out for sure instead of fucking guessing. In the meantime, can
somebody fucking tell me how apparently there was this super critical soul nugget in the
fucking house with us and nobody fucking noticed?”
And there’s suspicion on many of the wizards’ faces, when they turn again to look at the elf.
It had stopped dancing and exclaiming somewhere in the midst of Albus and the convict’s
questioning and is now rocking with its arms around itself, consumed in rapturous muttering.
It must have been watching them. It had seen the circle destroying cursed objects, and
decided to jump in on whatever private agenda it followed, and none of them had been able
to stop it in time. It was sheer luck that what the elf had done had benefited them. There are
too fucking many ways for magic to run circles around them - hell, the possessed boy had
somehow masked himself from even Alphonse. Roy needs to find a way to get the null circle
up in a defensive capacity without fully alerting every possible watcher to its full capabilities,
because they can not let there be a next time.
“There has been no way to track the fragments, nor identify their aura by magical means,”
Albus is telling the rest of the wizards as much as Fullmetal. “It takes physical identification
to be sure of what it is, and for that the object must be found in the first place. Believe me, if
there were any faster way to collect them -“
“Wait, but,” a girl says; it’s one of the wizard children, the only redheaded girl. She looks
chagrined to have interrupted Albus when they all look at her, but firms her face and plows
forward regardless. “Hairy stabbed the diary. My first year. Wasn’t that a piece of you know
whose soul? Wouldn’t he have felt it then?”
“He had no body then,” Albus says. “I cannot say for certain whether he felt it, but given he
did not immediately act to secure his family ring and continued to send his snake, we
bargained that either he did not notice or did not care, thinking it was destroyed merely as a
cursed object, not deliberately eliminated as one of his failsafes. He hoards and hides that
which he considers precious - as creature has just further confirmed.”
He nods at the muttering elf. “Regulus, who was a death eater and clearly observed
Voldemort’s habits more closely than we ever had a chance to, took care to leave a fake in the
place of the real locket. This suggests to us that Voldemort checks on those pieces he
considers his backstops. The particular piece in the diary he must have designated an
acceptable loss from the start, seeing as he left it in Lucius Malfoy’s possession - a tool to be
used, not a weakness to be safeguarded.”
That’s a lot of conjecture built on information Albus ostensibly didn’t have fifteen minutes
ago, though the wizards appear to be buying it, if somewhat uncertainly. It’s another thing
Roy has to fold into the growing map of inconsistencies and illogicalities in Albus’ actions:
he can’t reconcile the scattered conclusions with traitor, but they already know it adds up to
liability.
Roy’s not going to be forgetting about the shapeshifting convict either. He would ordinarily
address someone like Albus directly and make it his problem, but he does not want Albus to
have any chances to recenter his authority, even on something like a disciplinary matter. Roy
only addressed the wizard teenagers himself because they clearly weren’t answering to any
authority whatsoever; teenagers, in his experience, do not actually respond to anything that
isn’t gun in the face or cash in the hand. There’s no point addressing the Hairy boy: Roy
doesn’t give a damn about disciplining him, he just needs the little rat to stop blundering
around fucking with their operations, and that problem’s going to solve itself due to the fact
that he’s about to be handcuffed to Fullmetal.
Which just leaves the convict. Well, he can help with getting control of this clusterfuck into
at least Bones’ hands, if not Roy’s own. Roy turns to Bones, gesturing at the convict. “Are
you positive there’s no way that he could be transmitting information out? Or bringing
anything in?”
“What!” exclaims the convict.
“Not the location,” Bones says, but thoughtfully and while giving the convict a freshly
evaluating look.
“Have you forgotten that the death eaters murdered my best friends?” the convict says
incredulously. “They put me in Azkaban!”
“No, your ministry did that,” Roy says, mild. “Wrongfully, for over a decade. One could
argue that sort of thing would give you a certain motive.”
“The death eaters want to kill hairy,” Black hisses. “My god son. For Merlin’s sake, this is my
fucking house! If I were with them, I wouldn’t bloody be feeding them crock about where
you are or fucking about with cursed lockets, I’d be slitting your throats in your sleep!”
“Or you’d quietly lead the boy into spying, broadcasting everything he sees, knowing that
you wouldn’t be able to get us all before you were overpowered,” Roy says mildly. It’s not
that he strictly believes the convict to be a terrorist spy, it’s that the man’s proven himself
dangerous and needs a little less of his own group giving him free reign. Roy doesn’t have
the time, inclination or manpower to police idiots himself. “It’s not as though we’ll sit inside
this shielded house forever. Much easier and safer to lead the unwitting spy around, without
even being a spy yourself. And you can’t deny it’s rather convenient that it’s your brother
who ostensibly had the locket, no? And you with a slave to handle it for you. Almost elegant,
really -”
“Wait,” Alphonse says sharply, urgently, the sudden animation in his face a shock as he turns
away - from where he’d been staring past the wizards: at the house. “The shielding. The
magic that protects the house from detection - how is the shielding anchored? The -
Fidelios?”
For a moment, Roy doesn’t understand what Alphonse is asking. “The.. discharge of energy,”
Alphonse continues, making eye contact with Fullmetal. “From when Hairy unexpectedly
entered the array - it… may have disrupted the protective shielding on this house.
Significantly.”
And then Roy gets it: the Elrics built a wholesale nullification array. It eats all magic. They
set it off inside the field created by the wards, and by doing so they may have just
compromised the magical defenses keeping this place hidden: like punching a hole in the
liferaft you’re standing on.
“The Fidelius is one of the most stable and powerful magics known to wizardkind,” Albus
says, his great brows slowly drawing close as he meets Alphonse’s intent gaze. “It is not
easily disrupted.”
Alphonse’s mouth is a straight line. “It was a significant discharge.”
“The wattage this kind of array runs is one-thirty-eight thousand per second, at average load,”
Edward says sharply, apparently having caught on that it’s his turn to pile on the jargon.
“Your kid there set it off unprimed, right after we used it on that big werewolf curse, and it
flared. Do you want to risk a cancelling reaction?”
And if it had interacted with the boy’s soul, that would have been a serious chance of
blowback and even rebound, and an EMP flare would have been highly probable. Roy
reflexively checks over the circle’s inscribed formulae again, reassuring himself with the
open-ended offload sequence; it’s as neat a bit of work as Alphonse’s deflections, ensuring
any overloading flares of harvested energy will have a path to take: the outer ring, to chase
itself round and round until the electromagnetic convertors can make room and create light.
Still. Roy should’ve been the one to raise the concern, before the Elrics ever began testing.
They handle dangerous arrays on a daily basis, certainly, but those are dangerous in the way
any heavy machinery is dangerous. Fullmetal is not a war alchemist. He is not the one here
with the expertise in the calibration and control of death by design.
Fullmetal looks like he wants to shout a lot more, but shoots another look at his brother
instead. “ Is there a hole?”
Alphonse shakes his head. “Can’t tell.”
So whatever the effects may have been, they aren’t showing in qi. “Are you saying it
could...” Bill Weasley trails off with an increasingly horrified look, as Albus’ eyes go distant,
inwards.
“Yes,” Fullmetal says flatly, clearly angrier with himself than with the wizards, not that
they’d be able to tell. “You. Beardy. Go check on it.”
From what Roy can guess from Albus’ blank gaze, he already is. They haven’t been attacked
yet, and the array was first activated early this morning. That’s several hours in which the
enemy could have acted and didn’t, at least not in any immediately visible way. Is that too
long a window? Too short? The travel logistics are collapsed entirely by teleportation, but if
Roy suddenly saw the defenses of an enemy fortification fall, he wouldn’t send anyone in
right away. Not when the likeliest explanation was that they’d abandoned ship and left a
nasty surprise to go off in the face of anyone coming to investigate. These terrorists didn’t
need the extremely vivid memories of what little Ishvalan grandmothers could do with a
couple of tripwires, some broken glass and some oil to conjecture what a handful of civilian
wizards might leave as a trap.
Roy meets Maes’ eyes; Maes nods slightly. Their first priority is to move regardless, and to
territory they can hold without relying on the wizards. Flying by the seat of their pants like
this has already exposed them all to serious risk, and the longer they stand around talking in
no language other than mistrust the more dangerous the situation becomes.
Albus’s gaze refocuses before Roy can turn to Bones. “The Fidelius is anchored within the
soul -”
“What?” Fullmetal yelps.
“- but I cannot say how your array may have affected it,” Albus continues, as if Fullmetal
hadn’t spoken. “There has not been anything like this before. I cannot assure you that we are
wholly protected now. Just because the spell seems active currently does not mean that
information could have become - accessible, if it were disrupted.”
There’s a short, sharp pause as everyone else gets it. “Albus,” Bones says.
“Yes,” Albus says, sober if not visibly concerned. “We may have to go to the burrow now
after all.”
“Wait,” a twin says urgently just as Roy’s about to open his mouth again, looking between his
mother and Albus. “Percy.”
“Our brother,” Bill says before Roy can ask what the hell a Percy is, expression clouding
unhappily. “If he gets wind -“
“State sympathizer, handpicked to be the prime minister’s assistant,” Maes tells Roy briskly,
his expression grim but his eyes satisfied: here, Roy, catch.
“Right,” Bill says tightly, clearly unhappy but not disagreeing with this assessment. “And you
say you’ve got to test your cursebreaker more - you’d have to find a third place anyway,
because the Fidelius would be set up on the burrow too. If there’s no way to tell whether it’s
ripping holes in the spellwork, it won’t be safe to test it there either.”
“And don’t fucking forget the two ton animal upstairs,” Edward says sharply, primarily to
Roy. “Wherever we go better have space for that piece of luggage.”
“An unsecured family home should not be our first option,” Roy says to the wizards as a
whole, not even having to fake agreeability given circumstances are stacking the deck for
him. “Especially if it’s known to belong to one of you. It’s agreed that we need space, and
isolation, and a location to take our targets once we begin, and you have identified such a
location for us. It’s unaffiliated with any of you or your organization, and we need to prepare
the site in any case. We’ll all go there and wait until this house and yours can be properly
secured.”
And it’s very close to the school Albus works at, the castle he had wanted them to use in the
first place, which should get him onboard. Roy doesn’t have a backup for the current
situation: they’ll need to improvise blind if Albus objects strongly enough, and they sorely
need time to regroup and plan, without wizards hanging around, now that the tactical
landscape has changed so quickly. Two governments, one not even human? Where’s Roy
seen that before. And while what Albus described as Voldemort’s soul fragments don’t sound
quite like homunculi, that doesn’t mean there aren’t any among the terrorist forces.
Especially not if they have philosopher’s stones.
If Albus is a true alchemist, that’s something everybody failed to mention, which is in itself
strong evidence that they really do believe their alchemy is different. However, what
Fullmetal said about arrays looking similar is true, and also proof that whether or not Albus
told the truth about understanding what it was, he’d definitely seen a philosopher’s stone
array before: what Edward and Alphonse had cooked up was very, very close to the original.
Both arrays were energy transmutations, which locked in the majority of the formula right
from the start. There was very little they could change and still keep it functional. Energy
transmutation is finickier than even atmospheric, and all the developed arrays are few, rigid
and static, not because you’ll blow yourself up if you deviate, but because those are the only
ones that even work in the first place.
And even if Albus knows the array only as ‘dark magic’, what they’re up against is a ‘dark
wizard’ who, dead or undead, created himself a new body. If Roy had to imagine what
exactly that might look like, he suspects he’s already seen it before: Lust’s vicious smile
reforming, energy sparking, organs bubbling into existence around the stone held in his
hand.
“Very well,” Albus says after a moment. “We go to the hog’s head.”
Chapter End Notes
merry crisis
shh shh Watt can join Kelvin and Joule in ambiguous amestrisan existence limbo
Chapter 76
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Ed would be more focused on how fucking stupid he’s been if the whole the hide-me wards
are anchored in the fucking SOUL thing wasn’t taking up all his attention. He should’ve
asked what the hell was up with the house’s defenses, even if all that got him is the wizards’
own jargon; he should’ve at least demanded to know the parameters of function. He
should’ve held off, sat down with Al, gotten a wizard to teleport them off to some field
somewhere and tested the array there. That would’ve prevented people from fucking spying,
too, and whatever the sweet sugared fuck is going on with the elf. Story of his fucking life:
you just had to be so clever, mister alchemist.
But all that’s got to wait. Mustang makes some noises about clearing up the array properly,
waits until all the wizards have gone into the house, the elf dragged with them, then turns on
them with his actual General face on. “Havoc, Jones, Arget. Pack us up.” They hustle off.
“We’re not going to get a good moment to debrief. Talk,” Mustang orders the rest of them,
simultaneously gesturing that they all should, in fact, at least look busy erasing all traces that
the null array ever existed here.
The resulting round robin is pretty haphazard, but they run through everything that happened
in as much detail as they can, listening in increasing flabbergastion as Hughes rapidly runs
through what he knows of the wizards’ finance setup. It does seem exploitable, at least -
forcing an account freeze isn’t gonna be as easy here as just signing a warrant, but if these
goblins are a kiss the highest bidder kind of ally then Ed has every confidence Mustang and
Hughes will be right there wearing the right kind of lipstick. “Worst comes to worst, they
respond to threats,” Hughes says. “But this does mean the financial trail angle is no longer
our best quiet lead, and in any case if we’re about to get chased from safehouse to safehouse
we might not have time for any quiet anything.”
“Especially if our preparations have been compromised,” Hawkeye says, halfway through
disassembling the Kerchatka, the gun down to waist height now.
“We’re going to have to read the wizards in regardless,” Mustang says, a little clipped but
mostly just focused. “And soon. If we’re going to use them effectively, we can’t leave them
in the dark enough so that they blunder around shooting us in the feet. You’re right about our
strategy,” he adds, meeting eyes with Hawkeye. “We need to move quickly. If the enemy
does know our capabilities, we can’t give them time to develop countermeasures. We’ll
convene with Bones and Albus and whoever else they choose as their main operatives as
soon as there’s a chance. Ideally before we set off for the safehouse.” His gaze moves to Al.
“We’ll likely have to disclose your qi-sensing as well, if we’re going to rely on it in the
field.”
Which they already are, and not just because Al’s the one who brought up the chance that the
null array might’ve ripped through the magic on the house like a spear through spiderweb. “I
need to examine Hairy again,” Al says unequivocally. “Right before he entered the array, he
was invisible and had no qi signature. When the twins turned themselves invisible I could
still sense them. If this is something completely new, cropping up under these circumstances -
I don’t think we can say it’s not evidence towards deliberate spying, and if there is a way to
sneak up on us like that, then I want us to know. At the very least so we can bring it up when
we read them in.”
“If he was being controlled and directed to spy, he acted counterintuitively,” Hughes points
out. “You said he jumped in your array after he learned that it might cure him, which can
make sense if he were bound and saw his chance of freedom. Of course, in those
circumstances you’d expect some ‘hurrah, I’m not mind controlled anymore! Oh thank you
thank you thank you!’ type business, and we’re certainly not getting any of that -“
“He may not want to admit he was being controlled, or the control was subtle enough that he
himself didn’t realize it was in effect,” Mustang says.
“Their mind control is like getting drugged to fuck and hit over the head with a brick. Subtle
ain’t it,” Ed says flatly. “And they even said you can’t really act normal or do complicated
shit when you’re under.”
“I’m going to find out,” Al says, gaze fixed on the house like he can see straight through the
walls. “I’ll check him over physically for anything we may have missed. Even if he doesn’t
have all the facts himself, he might give us something to work with if we ask correctly.” He
looks at Hughes. “Colonel?”
“Yeah, why not.” Hughes gives the yard a last glance and straightens up, dragging a hand
over his hair and doing up a button on his terrible pawnbroker shirt. Ed’s only seen the actual
in-progress shift a handful of times before, but he knows what it is: Hughes can do with a
couple of vocal inflections and posture adjustments what it takes an entire backstage costume
department to do in between sets at the theater. When Hughes nods at Al, he’s not an
Intelligence head, he’s someone’s concerned dad worried because he just got a call about his
kid suddenly biting people in clarinet practice. “Let’s go.”
They head off, Hawkeye nodding, picking up her disassembled Kerchatka and heading off to
pack behind them. Just as Ed’s about to go settle up his own stuff, Mustang’s hand lands on
his shoulder.
There’s a deeply unpromising expression on his face. “Fullmetal. A word.”
-o-
“Harry,” Ron says, hushed and terse with worry, gripping Harry’s shoulders. They’ve all been
hustled off to pack up their things, seeing as Harry’s apparently just had some kind of…
violent soul surgery and as a result Voldemort and the rest of the Death Eaters might be able
to pop into Grimmauld Place now whenever they feel like it, and he, Ron, Hermione and
Ginny have huddled up on the mid-floor landing of the stairs, distant commotion above and
below them. “Are you alright? Did they really -”
Ron breaks off, about as eager to articulate whatever the bloody hell had just happened as
Harry is to think about it. He’s had a lot of bad days in his life, but so far this year seems to
be trying to break some kind of record. He has no idea what to think anymore. The
Unplottables might be here to help, but they’re all insane and they don’t act like they want a
single good thing to happen to any of them, ever. And they said Voldemort was in him - not
like a spirit or a curse but like a baby. And now they’re trying to deny ever having brought it
up, which means it’s probably true.
When Harry was ten, Aunt Petunia made him clean out the old garden shed top to bottom,
and when he’d heaved aside some ancient sacks of decomposing fertilizer there had been a
whole nest of cockroaches back there, scattering dozens and dozens of horrible squirming
babies, and it’s the memory that keeps on pushing to the forefront even though he knows that
if anything Voldemort would be using snakes. He’d even said it, in that nightmare of Frank
Bryce - where he had been a horrible, infant, thing, and - the snake, he was milking it -
Harry has to get a grip. It’s gone now. It’s been taken out of him. The Elrics and that searing
empty light had burned it out. If it cured Lupin, surely it’s worked on him too. It has to have,
even though Dumbledore himself couldn’t. Didn’t. Didn’t even mention it to Harry, at all,
and forbade Ron and Hermione from writing him, keeping him in the dark. So now people
are accusing Sirius of being a spy, Harry’s wand is broken, and the Invisibility Cloak is
somewhere down in the backyard, which is still full of Unplottables.
“They definitely cured Lupin,” Hermione says tightly, breaking through the steady upratchet
of something Harry’s too riled to identify as either rage or nausea. “Bill confirmed it. So their
cursebreaker, however it works, has to be powerful. And comprehensive. You heard Bill,
lycanthropy is in the blood - so whatever Harry… had,” she only stumbles slightly, “it stands
to reason it’s gone now too. Not even Voldemort managed to undo lycanthropy.”
“Did he ever try?” Ginny says grimly. “He sets Greyback on people for fun, he’s all for
werewolves.”
“The point is, the Unplottables can do what nobody else has managed,” Hermione says, still
low and intent. “And I don’t think they’re telling the truth about what it can do. Not all of it.
What kind of cursebreaker would rip through the Fidelius? You can’t access the Fidelius
once it’s in place, that’s the whole point of anchoring it in someone’s soul. But - they said
whatever Voldemort did was in Harry’s soul, and if they managed to access that…”
“But this is good,” Ron says, interrupting Hermione’s muttering before Harry can say that
they’re obviously not telling the truth, pretending that oops-you-just- misunderstood about the
soul pregnancy. Ron’s eyes are searching on Harry’s, visibly trying for certainty. “It’s - listen,
I still don’t trust any of those smug Unplottable bastards, but this is why Dumbledore told us
not to tell Harry anything. He was worried Voldemort might be able to hear.” He gives Harry
a worried look. “And now he can’t. So now you’re safe, yeah? We’ve just got to get you a
new wand.”
Right. Right, Ron’s had to get new wands before, it’s not the end of the world. “And the
Cloak,” Harry says, hating the shaky edge in his own voice even though he knows the vicious
feeling building behind his sinuses now and it’s sure as hell not tears. “I’ve got to get the
Cloak.” That’s a certainty, something solid and sure in the midst of all of this. “It’s lying out
in the yard. I need it. We can’t just leave it out there.”
Ron and Hermione exchange glances, but they know he’s right. “You don’t have a wand right
now,” Hermione says, mouth pressed tight. “And if you suddenly go missing, they won’t just
assume you’re in the bathroom. They already thought you were a spy. I have the best
Disillusionment. I’ll go.”
“Is that going to be enough?” Ron says. “They accused Sirius of spying for the Death Eaters
just because he was taking a look around. I don’t think they’re going to be much happier if
they think they see somebody hidden poking around out there.”
“We can make a distraction,” Ginny offers, with the kind of casual understatement of bedlam
that really makes it clear she’s Fred and George’s sister. “We can - oh, hello!”
Harry turns to follow her gaze over his shoulder and sees that two of the Unplottables, at
least, have left the backyard: Alphonse Elric and the man named Hughes. “Hello,” Alphonse
says as the two of them start up the staircase, apparently unworried that Harry and the rest are
more or less blocking it. “All done packing?”
“Not yet,” Ginny says in a cheery schoolgirl voice. “Do you guys need something?”
“We’d like to speak with you for a moment,” Hughes says, looking right at Harry. “It won’t
take long. We just want to make sure everything’s alright.”
Hermione looks like she’s about to open her mouth, then visibly stomps on the impulse and
tries to fade into the background. “And we should go get packing,” Ginny says virtuously,
grabbing Ron’s elbow and very clearly telling Harry to go acquire an alibi with these two
with her eyes. “Before Gred and Forge get Kreacher to do our laundry or something.”
“Fine,” Harry says shortly, squaring to face the two Unplottables. They aren’t Elric or the
Asian Lockhart, at least. “You can tell me exactly what you did to me out there.”
“Of course,” Alphonse says equably, his eyes not once leaving Harry. “A patient’s account of
the procedure is always invaluable.”
“Sure,” Harry says, the Unplottables smiling and heading into the empty study down the hall
when he jerks his chin at it. “Invaluable, that’s me.”
As the door closes, he sees Hermione slip down the stairs.
Chapter End Notes
distant but rattling tones of yakety sax as performed on funeral bells begins to play
Chapter 77
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Hermione manages to cast the Disillusionment on herself in a corner of the ground floor
corridor, back pressed to the wall so she can see anybody coming from both directions and
trying to pronounce the spell without actually letting sound pass through her lips. Her brain
hasn’t stopped feeling like a Vitamix full of sriracha and hornets since they came inside,
thoughts like Fidelius and cancelling reaction and horcrux??? ricocheting around as if on
tiny individualized screaming jetpacks, but practice pays off and the spell works. The magic
takes hold with the usual warm, ticklish rush, and she can tell it’s a good one, the spell
ringing clear and complete in her mind despite the din.
She can hear the Amestrisans in their room, packing up. Sirius and Kreacher are shouting at
cross-purposes somewhere down the hall. Mrs. Weasley is in the kitchen; all the other
members of the Order that are staying here have filed themselves off to their own rooms to
pack too. There’s enough commotion and traffic that when she eases the back door open,
quick as she dares, she’s fairly sure nobody hears it.
There’s a grinding sound coming from the backyard as she slips out, which makes her freeze
before she remember’s she’s invisible. Then she freezes again as she realizes it doesn’t
matter, a door opening by itself is going to be noticed if the backyard isn’t empty, but in a
massive stroke of luck there are only two Amestrisans out here and they’re both facing away
from the house.
It’s Elric and General Mustang, which is… much less of a stroke of luck. Elric must have just
clapped: the grinding noises are the rough blocks of earth he’d raised sinking back down into
the ground.
It must’ve covered the sound of the door opening, too, because neither of them turn around,
and after a frozen second Hermione quickly sidles away from the house, heart pounding in
her throat. Elric folds his arms, turning to Mustang. “Okay, what?”
Mustang holds his hand up in front of him - oddly, thumb out, palm towards his chest, as
though he’s showing Elric the back of his hand. The red symbols on the back of his glove,
Hermione realizes. A mark of office? Hermione squints: no. A transmutation circle.
“Why don’t I use hydrogen, Edward?”
Elric’s handsome even when he scowls, which is lucky for him given he doesn’t often have
other expressions. “Because it’s basically just protons and eats everything it touches?”
“And?”
Elric exhales hard, short and sharp. “Because it’s twice a bitch to steer without turning you
into a sitting duck or making your controlled alchemical reaction into an uncontrolled
exothermic reaction.”
“What did I tell you yesterday, Edward?”
A muscle tics in Elric’s jaw. “Don’t transmute unless you know the terrain.”
“After my state exam, I thought my mastery complete,” Mustang says, his voice quieter now.
“Do you want to know the kinds of mistakes I made, the first weeks of my deployment?”
Hermione might be imagining it, but Elric’s thick shoulders look like they’re slowly rising
around his ears. It seems absurd on the breadth of his frame, but all she can think of is
Crookshanks slowly fluffing up, catching sight of something he can’t yet tell is worth
fighting or skittering away from. “No.”
“It’s not enough to be smart, Edward.” The way Mustang pronounces it is almost
Continental: a hard d, a hard r. The true sound of Amestrisan, slipping through the translation
magic’s protocol for proper noun handling. “I don’t want you to have to learn things the hard
way.”
Despite the words, it should sound like a threat. The last time Hermione heard the man speak
that softly, he was telling her he didn’t want any more accidents. But it isn’t.
It’s not nice, either. “Am I understood?”
“Yes,” Elric bites off.
“Good.” Mustang exhales, decisively, like he’s letting it go. “The array is excellent work.
Very well done.”
This, perversely, makes Elric bristle further. “I don’t need no pat on the head from you.
Colonel.”
“Oh? So you’d rather we take to your mistakes?” And that voice is definitely a threat. “Very
well. What the hell was that you allowed with the convict, all metal?”
“Allowed? Allowed?”
And they start bellowing at each other. Hermione nearly jumps a mile, their voices climbing
so quickly and sharply after that contained little conversation that she’s amazed she doesn’t
hear the crack of the sound barrier. “ I didn’t allow fuck shit, they barged in on us -”
“Precisely my point, all metal, as it’s hardly commendable when some backwit civilians and
their barely literate spawn just swan in and activate an array not even listed in the GeigerMuller output thresholds -”
“It was safe! We tested it on me, and Al, nothing was going to happen to him -”
“I don’t care if you transmuted him into a urinal cake and chucked him off the roof!”
Hermione has to swallow some kind of sound; possibly some cross between growl and
squeak. “This is about security. We are already working in compromised circumstances, and
to have such a lapse in judgment that we now have to evacuate - I told you to wait for me to
start testing -”
“Oh, don’t fucking pretend it didn’t do you a favor! I saw your smug ass holed face when
they sounded bail, there’s no downside to getting us out of this decomposing shit shack -”
Hermione desperately wishes she could pay better attention - “Unpacked, unplanned, our
fortifications opened to the enemy?” - but this is about as good a distraction as she’s going to
get. She keeps to the edges of the yard, circling wide around the two of them, and risks a dash
to the still-bare dirt where they’d chalked their circle: it’s not like they’ll hear her footsteps
over the shouting. Then there’s nothing for it: she drops down on all fours and starts groping
the ground like Velma having lost her glasses.
“And now we’re on to the hard part,” Mustang says, his voice suddenly dropping all the way
back down again, quiet enough that Hermione spooks and freezes again, straining to hear.
“Now that the most obvious leak has been eliminated, you’re going to tell Bones and the rest
what your array really does.”
Hermione freezes mid-grope.
“What, all of it?”
“All of it. They’re about to set up defenses at the new safehouse, and we don’t know enough.
We cannot afford another slip up like this.”
Hermione’s eyes swivel from side to side in her sockets, like her brain is looking for options
on the outside because all the ones it’s producing on the inside are bad. What Mustang just
said... could mean that they don’t want their alchemy to accidentally interfere with the
Fidelius again. But what it definitely means... is that they lied about what their array did.
What it can do. Either outright, or by omission, they hadn’t told them what the array really
does.
“Fucking dumb all doorman too?” Elric sounds completely and inexplicably calm again, or at
least back to the irritated insouciance that seems to be as close as he ever gets; Hermione
mouths dumb all...? to herself before realizing he means Dumbledore.
“Yes,” Mustang says, also sounding as though Hermione’s just missed some kind of
extensive reconciliation and peace pact in the past fifteen seconds, or maybe just them casting
Obliviate on each other. “Bones has agreed that he’s better redirected. Let this redirect him. If
he wants to chase his prophecy, then that is exactly what he should do.”
A prophecy. Like Elric had said, at the playground where they’d found Harry. It’d been hard
to parse everything he’d been saying, but it was something about why no one had
assassinated Voldemort. Something about how it would - let him possess people? But if he’s
just been possessing Harry now - and he’d definitely possessed Ginny back in second year -
how would this be different? And Ginny had been - exorcised, or de-possessed, freed,
whatever, even without any array. Hermione can’t deny it’s easier than slaying a basilisk and
stabbing a cursed object with its almost insurmountably toxic fang, but the process is not
impossible without it . You can buy basilisk fangs.
Elric also said he didn’t believe there even is a prophecy, but he’d been told about it by
Dumbledore . Hermione can’t wholly preclude that Dumbledore might not have been sharing
the whole picture, given that whole back and forth about the Amestrisans accusing him of
being an alchemist as if that were some kind of secret, but why would he? Why give the
Amestrisans that information - even if it's misinformation - if it weren’t somehow relevant to
killing Voldemort?
More importantly, it sounds like the Amestrisans want to get rid of Dumbledore, or at the
very least send him off, out of the way, as if he’s a cat to shut in the bathroom while they do
the vacuuming. The Order needs Dumbledore. He might not be Mugwump anymore, but he’s
still got considerable sway in the Ministry, all on top of being the most powerful wizard in
Magical Britain. Even if you don’t fully trust him, trying to get him anywhere but squarely in
the middle of your own camp isn’t just shooting yourself in the foot, it’s blowing your own
leg off and swan-diving into raw sewage. This doesn’t make any bloody sense.
Hermione’s hands tighten in the grass. In primary school before Hogwarts, they’d had a
whole unit on the scientific method and forming hypotheses and the process of testing things
to find out what’s actually true, which they then spent several weeks demonstrating via the
medium of putting various samples of hair and snot and dust bunnies into petri dishes full of
agar and seeing which ones grew mold. Hermione had done a book report on the discovery of
penicillin as an extra credit project, and then, by herself, read further on polio and the
development of the Salk vaccine.
It had been like a light going on. Before, she’d always felt a vague but insistent anxiety that
she couldn’t muster even a sliver of excitement about the prospect of dental school, even far
off as it had been, then. Children are supposed to want to be like their parents, and her parents
are doctors. Why wouldn’t she want to strive for that?
But this had solved everything. Hermione was going to be a biomedical researcher when she
grew up, and become the kind of doctor that meant nobody would ever have to go to doctors
ever again.
Of course, then she’d gotten her Hogwarts letter, which had pretty definitively proven that for
all the might and power of the sciences of the muggle world, the March of Reason had
missed some pretty fundamental things.
Not that the two worlds are all as separate as people want to believe. In Universum Aeterni,
Agi Drachentöter wrote that there is no true chaos, only perception of same, due to failure of
appropriate organization. There are no unmappable territories, only inept cartographers and
inadequate maps. That doesn’t mean you stop making maps, or discard cartography itself -
the process of investigation isn’t at fault. You don’t stop asking questions just because you’re
not getting anywhere. You just have to keep doing it, as many times as it takes to get it right.
Out of confusion, organization. Out of mystery, truth. She just has to get organized.
What she first has to get, however, is the Cloak.
She has to get closer. If Harry dropped the Cloak right before he jumped into the circle, then
it’d be somewhere over there where the chalk marks had been, close by. Practically under the
boots of the Amestrisans and their very worrying conversation.
Hermione’s halfway through her best slug impression slash army crawl when the door to the
house opens, nearly sending her out of her skin. She practically inhales dirt as she flattens
down, then thinks oh bloody hell will they see the grass crushed under me? and tries to
levitate herself back up again without actually moving or breathing or losing contact with the
ground.
But once again the alchemists aren’t looking at her: Director Amelia Bones has just entered
the yard, an austere but somehow satisfied look of preoccupation on her face. “Mustang,” she
says as Hermione freezes yet again. “Mad-Eye will be leading the setup of the new Fidelius.
I’m off to the Ministry. If there is a raid, I’m mobilizing every Auror and hitting those
bastards with everything we’ve got.”
Mustang faces her fully. “This won’t raise questions of partisanship?”
There’s something crocodilian in Bones’ mouth when she smiles: she’s not anxious about the
prospect of Death Eaters mobbing them at all. “Not if we’re answering a distress call. So you
all stick close and look tempting right up until it’s time to leave.”
“You expect a long interval?”
“We’re waiting for Mad-Eye. Better for us to stay put while he scouts it out and sends back a
Patronus. Won’t be more than twenty minutes or so, he left right away.”
As Hermione processes all that, it registers that there’s something under her left pinky,
something that doesn’t quite feel like grass or dirt. Slowly, she inches her hand in its
direction, then lifts her palm and eases it back down.
Fabric. The silvery, there-and-gone again folds of the Cloak are strewn out in a meandering
rope, shimmering like the sandbed of a creek seen through clear running water. Hermione’s
hand on it tightens into a fist, scrunching the fabric securely between her fingers.
The best thing would be for her to try and get under it now: the Cloak hides more completely
than any Disillusionment spell can. She really wishes it weren’t these two alchemists out
here. While Hermione’s not so sure the rest of the Amestrisans qualify as muggles, they’re
still probably much less likely to pick up on her presence than Elric, who can sense people
apparating. She can’t get back inside before the two of them anyway: they’ll definitely notice
the door opening all by itself this time.
“We need to speak with you before you go,” Mustang tells Bones, as Hermione risks it and
starts easing on the Cloak, as gingerly as if it were candyfloss and broken glass. “Albus as
well. We have information I believe will be critical to setting up the new safehouse, as well as
any tactical decisions we will be taking from here on out.”
The Cloak settles around Hermione; Bones cuts Mustang a sharp look. “Now?”
“Now,” Mustang agrees, and it strikes Hermione that while the easy, diplomatic way he
phrases things hasn’t changed, the harmonics behind it have: there’s a subtle pressure
gathered around him now, barometric, not seen or even heard so much as felt. He isn’t
asking.
And Bones, who has the kind of presence Hermione imagines typically comes with
monolithic basalt sculpture and advancing tank formations, just nods, jerking her chin at the
door. “I’ll see what I can do.”
And they head back inside. Hermione finds herself rising into a sort of sprinter’s crouch
without any kind of conscious command, even though of course she had to. They’re going to
tell Bones what the array really does. What they really did to the Fidelius. To Lupin. To
Harry.
Hermione bites her lip. She can’t afford to pass up this chance. Moving as lightly as she can,
invisible under the Cloak, she follows them inside.
Chapter End Notes
Hermione does not lack for hard work nor ambition nor curiosity but the hat put her in
gryffindor bc she has the problem-solving strategies of a chainsaw
Chapter 78
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Are you all right?”
“What?” Harry says, not expecting that to be the first question.
Hughes gestures back to the door somewhat. “That was a lot of confusion. You’ve just had
something pretty major happen to you. I know I’d be shaken up.” He makes a little heh sound
and takes off his glasses, polishing them on his shirt; his face looks oddly naked without
them, more worn. “Hell, I am shaken up. Damn alchemists.”
The last isn’t without affection, and Alphonse is smiling beside him, but the wear on Hughes’
face isn’t any less for it. He may have been laughing a lot every time some new squawk of
enraged bewilderment came from Elric’s corner, but it occurs to Harry that it might not
exactly have been… happy laughter. More the kind that comes out of Sirius sometimes.
Better to just get this over with. “What did you want?”
“We wanted to talk to you about what happened,” Alphonse says. “With the circle.”
“What happened?” Harry snaps, suddenly boiling over: with rage, with the exhaustion of
repeating and repeating himself and nobody fucking listening , with this Alphonse’s temerity
to ask anything of him after nearly stabbing Sirius in the back. “What happened is that
nobody told me Voldemort can see in my head. This wouldn't happen if anyone told me
anything -”
“They should have,” Hughes says tiredly. “Even if they couldn’t tell you Voldemort was
spying through you without revealing to him that they knew, they should have told you
something. You are not a child. Your life is at stake. You went looking for answers. And since
you were not adequately informed, there were consequences.”
Harry’s stopped short, whatever he was going to say next knocked completely off the tracks.
What Hughes just said sounds like he’s agreeing with Harry, but also not, which doesn’t
make any bloody sense. He - doesn’t even sound angry, just starkly matter of fact, which is
more unsettling than if he’d started shouting.
“Either way - you are a primary target of the enemy and we have already had to deal with an
attempt on your life,” Hughes continues, still with that tired but direct look. “We don’t have
the resources to babysit you. You need to be able to protect yourself, and that means you need
to be armed and informed. It’s why we made curing you our first priority.”
Harry stares at him, realizing his mouth is open, and snaps it shut. That’s… true. The
Unplottables have only been here a few days, and… practically right away, they’d started
working on their chalk circle. The very next day, after the dementors came after him in Little
Whinging. And they’d stopped Harry from being sent back to the Dursleys, when even Lupin
seemed to think that was the best idea.
“If you hadn’t gone looking, just a few hours later we would’ve explained, and invited you to
step into the circle yourself,” Alphonse says quietly, picking up where Hughes left off. “We
needed to finish up testing the array, making sure that the procedure wouldn’t hurt you or
have any unexpected side effects. Since you… sped up the timeline,” here his mouth quirks,
friendly, half-smiling, “we just want to look you over again and make sure everything’s
alright.”
Everything he’s saying… makes sense, but Harry can’t help the reflexive suspicion still
curling in his gut. It’s like shoving and shoving at a locked door only to find that not only has
it vanished, it never existed in the first place. Like opening the door to the chamber after the
chesspieces, back in first year, trying to get to the philosopher’s stone, and finding that the
troll had already been killed by someone else.
Because Quirrell and Voldemort had already gotten there before them. Like Mad-Eye - the
Death Eater impostor, the younger Crouch, clearing obstacles out of Harry’s way in the
Triwizard Maze.
But the Unplottables had proven that their circle really is a cursebreaker array, and
Dumbledore and Bill Weasley had agreed. It’d destroyed whatever was in Kreacher’s locket.
It’d done something to Harry - broken his bloody wand, but it had been connected to
Voldemort, even if that connection had been what saved his life in that graveyard.
And it’s not always what he thinks, when something wrong is happening. When Harry’d had
letters stop coming and become convinced his friends had abandoned him as a bad deal after
all, it’d turned out Dobby was stealing them or Dumbledore was forbidding them from
coming. His assuming the worst hadn’t come to pass.
But that was his friends. The last man who’d been as helpful as these Unplottables had turned
out to be a Death Eater keeping the real Mad-Eye drugged in his trunk.
But if there is something wrong with him.
“Fine,” Harry says, trying not to think of cockroaches.
Alphonse nods, puts his sword-cane down by Hughes - Harry can’t help but track it - and
goes to him. He’s is as calm and easy as he’d been before, chatting comfortably with Sirius as
he’d drawn his marker down Harry’s temple, but now there’s something ever so slightly off
in his manner, like a puppet show where the light changed for just a second but you can’t
forget that you saw the strings.
Harry steels himself and lets Alphonse touch him. He’d almost think the crawling feeling is
the lingering shock of what Alphonse had done - not just that he’d pulled a sword out of
nowhere, but so fast, no hesitation whatsoever in his draw. No asking questions, no
wondering if maybe Sirius wasn’t guilty: just the blade. And he’d been the one Unplottable to
talk most with Sirius, to not call him convict, the one person wizard or otherwise who’d
wanted Harry to live with Sirius instead of the bloody Dursleys. He’d seemed like he
understood Sirius, understood Harry. And then he’d turned around and done - that.
But that feeling is the burning knot in Harry’s belly, a tangle of anger both confusing and
perfectly clear. He knows Alphonse is a liar now; fine. It’s not like someone turning out to be
a bastard is new. It’s not special. But this feeling is something else. This is the hairs on
Harry’s arms trying to rise.
The problem is Alphonse isn’t doing anything wrong. He touches Harry’s wrists, his neck,
checking his pupils and pulse, speaking calmly and amiably just like before, asking about
Harry’s headaches, his vision; there’s nothing Harry can point to and say, this is the problem.
“Any lingering pain from the extraction of the curse?” Alphonse asks as he pulls out his
marker, gesturing that he’s going to draw on Harry again. “I’m not sure there’s a way for us
to make it less, hm, abrupt, for future werewolf patients, but if the curse is apparently that
invasive I’m not sure we’ll be able to do more than warn people of what to expect.”
“Well, I’m no werewolf,” Harry says dourly, about to tell them that shouldn’t Lupin be here
also - when just like before comes the unmistakable sound of Elric’s rough voice raised in
anger, coming up muffled from what sounds like the backyard.
Harry shoots to his feet, his first, freezing thought is they caught Hermione. But before he
can do more than jerk towards the door the shouting is joined by a deeper, unfamiliar voice
doing equal volume, and from what Harry can tell, it… sounds like they’re shouting at each
other.
Hughes gives no more than a mildly interested glance towards the door, a somewhat rueful
look passing briefly over his face. “They finally got around to it, huh?”
Alphonse rolls his eyes, a strangely mechanical motion. “Better they get it out of their
systems now.”
“What happened?” Harry says, because even if it doesn’t sound like they caught Hermione,
she’s still down there in the middle of whatever’s happening, and people don’t go having a
row in public when things are going right. “What are they doing?”
Alphonse sighs prodigiously. “The general probably made one comment too many about my
brother’s personal grooming habits.”
“Believe it or not, this is actually getting along pretty well, for alchemists,” Hughes says
ruefully. “This happens every time they’re in the same postcode longer than twenty-four
hours. Though it has been a while… If they do start to get rowdy you might have to go break
it up.”
That’s to Alphonse, who nods and gives Harry an expectant look. “Let’s finish up so you can
get back to your friends.”
He can’t possibly know about Hermione. He was here with Harry the whole time. It sounds
ominous nonetheless, and Harry sits back down slowly. If nothing else, the longer he keeps
Alphonse and Hughes here with him the more time it gives for Hermione to come back up
unnoticed, avoiding people on the stairs.
Alphonse uncaps the marker, and this time he leans in to draw in the hollow of Harry’s throat.
“I did want to ask you about how exactly you appeared in the backyard, by the way,” he says
- idly, his attention on the ink, but the hair on Harry’s neck joins the hair on his arms. “The
circle’s discharge was greater than we anticipated, which is why we’re leaving now. We’re
not sure what caused it, but it may have been the interaction of your teleportation energies.
You appeared so suddenly, and entered the transmutation field almost immediately… the
energy signature didn’t match any teleportation we’ve seen so far.”
“Really?” That’s Hughes: Harry’s bracing for a more direct accusation, but he looks at most
surprised. Intrigued, even: like Mr. Weasley presented with the concept of a hairdryer. “Are
there different kinds of teleporting, then? Is that something most wizards can do?”
So they don’t know about the Cloak. But they know there’s something to know.
“I dunno,” Harry says, keeping his voice controlled. “I haven’t been Apparating long. I -
heard Lupin. Screaming. And Sirius shouting. So I went to them.” He meets Alphonse’s
yellow stare, unflinching. “It’s pretty hit or miss still, when I practice. But this time it
worked. I was worried someone might’ve been hurting them, you see.”
They both just watch him for a long moment, Hughes’ brows slowly meeting, clearly
thinking hard. “We should ask Director Bones about it,” he says, more or less to Alphonse.
“If it’s something the Death Eaters can use to get the jump on us…” He sighs heavily. “We
can’t afford to be ignorant. Especially now.”
Harry does feel a slight guilty twinge at that. If they’re all bracing for Death Eater assassins
to slip in, and they don’t know about invisibility cloaks… but surely someone in the Order
would tell them. Dumbledore knows about invisibility cloaks. On the other hand, the only
person to have dealt directly with Death Eaters and Voldemort in any significant way in the
past, oh, fifteen years is Harry.
Not that he’d seen the Death Eaters making much use of any. Hadn’t Dumbledore said
invisibility cloaks were rare?
Alphonse shrugs. “I’m hoping that’s it, to tell the truth,” he says. “It feels like every time we
turn there’s a new advantage magic has over us. If it turns out to be something we’re not
prepared for… well. I hope not.”
“I hope so too,” Hughes says, more quietly, taking his glasses off to polish them again. “For
all our sakes.”
“We’ll deal with it,” Alphonse says, meeting Harry’s eyes. His hands are calloused and cool
on Harry’s throat. “One way or another.”
Harry doesn’t say anything as Alphonse continues with the marker. Hughes seems genuinely
worried for the Order’s safety, but this close Harry can see how unnaturally still Alphonse’s
expression is, how he hasn’t blinked in far too long. Harry hasn’t forgotten how easy and
calm he’d sounded with his sword to Sirius’ spine. Hughes may be decent, but these Elrics
are like the Veela he’d seen at the Cup: beautiful, golden, and something very wrong under
the surface.
And this one is worse. Elric had gotten in Harry’s face when he’d taken their wands and
trapped them in the floorboards, but this one is creepy. Elric had been honest about it, not
trying to hide his anger and disdain; Alphonse smiled like a saint while holding a blade to
Sirius’ back. Harry would be a bloody idiot to trust him.
And he’s pretty sure Bones has no idea he’s got an invisibility cloak. Dumbledore does,
obviously, but the Unplottables aren’t likely to find out from him. It’s not like Dumbledore’s
being any more forthcoming with them than with Harry, if that confrontation in the yard was
anything to go by. If it comes to it, Dumbledore won’t tell them.
Probably. He’s pretty sure.
“One more thing,” Alphonse says, still drawing against Harry’s temple; he looks more
distracted now, blanker, like he’s listening to something only he can hear.
“Yeah?” Harry says warily.
“Your wand,” Alphonse says, refocusing slightly on Harry and giving him yet another creepy
little smile. “It was also connected to Voldemort, yes? We’ll likely need to take it downstairs
and examine it, make sure it’s safe now. Just like with you.”
Harry’s hands tighten reflexively on the legs of his jeans, even though there’s no point: his
wand’s broken, eaten up by that circle just like all the other cursed objects. He put it in his
pocket on automatic, but even now he can feel it - or rather can’t: its customary slight warmth
is absent, gone dead from the inside out. And even though Harry gets that it’s a good thing,
probably, to cut out all the connections to Voldemort, especially since they’d been so much -
worse, than he thought, but he still balks. In the graveyard, that connection had saved his life.
But it’s gone now. Even with the connection gone, if there was a chance of repairing his wand
he’s sure Sirius and Lupin would’ve tried that first thing, or at least told him to hold tight
until they could get to Ollivander’s for repair or something. And even then he’d seen Ron’s
repaired wand - he’d had to get a new one, or rather a fresh hand me down, because it just
wasn’t working right anymore. Harry knows he wouldn’t be able to cast a Patronus with that
kind of wand. He’s going to have to get a new one no matter what.
But he still doesn't want to hand his wand over to Alphonse bloody Elric.
All this indecision streams by as Alphonse finishes writing on him, presses three fingers in a
somewhat awkward configuration into random points around Harry’s temples, forehead and
nose, and then without comment sits back to resume staring at him with that same polite
smile. “Do you have it with you?” he asks. “We should be able to give it back once we’re
done.”
Harry once again becomes acutely aware of Hermione, downstairs, outside, with Elric right
there and audibly out to ruin someone’s day. Studying the wand might get them inside, not to
mention off of investigating the Cloak. “Fine,” Harry says, not bothering not to sound
resentful about it as he dig it out of his jeans.
“Thank you,” Alphonse says equably, taking it with both hands and looking it over.
“I’ll just go then,” Harry says tersely, making to stand.
“Yes, of course - oh - you may want to wash your face again,” Alphonse calls after him, but
Harry’s already out the door.
Chapter End Notes
Al & Hughes: we know you know something, harry
Harry: harry? Who’s harry? My name is roonil wazlib
Chapter 79
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
They run into Dumbledore in the hallway. “Albus,” Bones says commandingly as Hermione
stills a few steps behind Elric and tries to tamp down the irrational conviction that
Dumbledore will just somehow know she’s there. “A word with us, before we go.”
“We’ll be brief,” Mustang says. “This room here should suit, I think.”
“I’m afraid brief is all we have,” Dumbledore says, as Hermione takes a chance and slips into
the empty dining room ahead of them, minimizing the risk of getting the door shut in her face
if she tries to sneak in after. “I’ve activated the wards we’ve placed, but Sirius does not have
the Black signet and cannot rouse the ancestral defenses of the house himself. If an attack
does come we’d be best served by at the very least being packed.”
Mustang ignores the dig, if he’d even noticed it; Hermione, inside the room, can‘t see his
face. “We have a few facts critical to any safeguards you’ll be putting up at any future
safehouse and to any further plans besides,” he says, in a it’ll take as long as it takes tone.
“Fullmetal, get your brother.”
“Well then,” Dumbledore says after a short pause, Elric’s boots a rapid thump-thump up the
stairs. “In that case, as Alastor has gone ahead, I will go and fetch William Weasley.”
Mustang and Bones enter the room and sit down, Mustang arranging himself at the head of
the table in a way that conveys the chair should be deeply embarrassed about not
transfiguring itself into a throne the moment he first considered it. Bones isn’t any less a
commanding presence at his right. Hermione sidles into the corner closest to the door and
stays there, mind buzzing: critical to any future safeguards. What the array really does. A
prophecy about possession.
If Elric and Mustang are right about Dumbledore believing the prophecy is key, and if their
cursebreaker array can break possession - and regardless of what it did or didn’t do to Harry,
it can , demonstrably, break curses, they all saw Lupin’s diagnostic glow gold - all of them
would have no reason to be worried: if the prophecy warns of Voldemort’s ability to possess
people, well, here they are with a tool that can turn that right around, no basilisk fangs
required.
But Dumbledore is worried, and so are the Amestrisans. Just not in regards to Voldemort.
Which means that in their opinion, there is something to worry about, and it’s worse than
Voldemort. And Dumbledore had reacted, upon seeing the circle, as though it were Dark
magic.
Is that why the Amestrisans are trying to get rid of him? Because what their circle does -
what it really does - has some kind of horrible price, and they don’t want Dumbledore to
interfere?
Elric had been very worked up about the cost of magic, that day they met. He was convinced
there was some kind of price for everything magic can do. He’d all but told them that in
alchemy, there is a price.
Hermione swallows. It’s not that magic never has costs outside of your own stamina. There
were records, in the book where she’d found that information on Flamel back in first year:
stories of wizards who had maimed themselves and others in their experiments with magic,
allusions to rituals of power and control that demanded a sacrifice of flesh. Warnings that for
all the dangers of temporary enchantments, the cost of permanence was often more than most
could pay. And for a great magical working - and their circle is a great magical working, a
universal cursebreaker is unheard of - the more she thinks about it, the more Hermione’s
absolutely certain that there’s no way something like that wouldn’t have a cost.
And she’s about to find out what it is. Dumbledore sweeps into the room, Bill Weasley with
his eyebrows drawn together behind him. Hermione lets her shoulderblades try to become
one with the wall, breathing shallow. She doesn’t know what they’ll do if they catch her, but -
well, she doesn’t have any chance of telepathically sending You-Know-Who any information,
but that doesn’t mean she shouldn’t take every possible step not to let them catch her at all.
“Young Mr. Weasley is a cursebreaking expert and warding specialist with Gringotts,”
Dumbledore tells Mustang, as Elric also shoulders through the door - dropping the locket
Kreacher had so explosively delivered to them onto the table. “He is also capable of casting
the Fidelius.”
“Laying the foundations, anyway,” Bill says, eyeing the locket. “You’ve found other spells on
it?”
Elric snorts. “No.”
Bill looks puzzled, probably about to ask what’s going on then, only he’s preempted by
Alphonse Elric coming in, followed by Hughes. That must mean Harry’s free, and probably
convening right about now with Ron and Ginny. They’ll be wondering where she is.
Hermione bites her lip, willing them not to do anything that might break up the meeting
before she has a chance to find out what’s happening. They’re all about to move out of
Grimmauld place, and who knows what kind of setup their new safehouse might have; Mrs.
Weasley and the others were already putting Imperturbable Charms on the doors during their
meetings, and that was before all this talk of telepathic eavesdropping and spies. This might
be the best chance they get.
Mustang looks at Alphonse. “The boy?”
“Clean,” Alphonse replies, pulling himself a chair - and putting Harry’s wand on the table.
Hermione has to clamp down on a whole body flinch, even as she reminds herself that it was
already broken, already useless to Harry. “Malignancy’s gone entirely, no physical damage or
significant qi disruption. A bit unsettled, of course,” Alphonse adds, eyes flicking to
Dumbledore and the rest as his tone goes rueful, “but that’ll pass. But no other abnormalities
I can detect.”
“He will be examined by a Healer as well, once it is safe to do so,” Dumbledore says, not in
any way confrontational but with a quiet firmness that reassures Hermione, a little. He clearly
doesn’t think Harry needs to be looked at immediately - but he does think he’ll need to be
looked at. By someone who isn’t an Unplottable.
“The boy was very lucky,” Mustang remarks, examining a seam on his glove. “Once we’re
established in the new safehouse, work should begin on a further fallback point. It’ll house
the noncombatants in this group until our operations are concluded. It’s all very well and
good to keep everyone together, but we cannot afford to spend time watching our backs for
the bright ideas of mismanaged children.”
As if he hadn’t just shouted all over the yard about how this was all Elric’s fault. Hermione
frowns invisibly at Mustang as he looks back at Alphonse. “In the meantime?”
“I’ve marked him,” Alphonse says casually. “I’ll always be able to tell where he is now. He’ll
have to cut off his head to remove it.”
Hermione bites hard on the inside of her cheek. Elric, having taken a seat beside his brother,
twists around to look almost accusingly at him. “Why didn’t you do that earlier?”
“Because he’d have to cut off his head to remove it,” Alphonse says pointedly. “My primary
responsibility is the patient’s health and wellbeing. If the benefit to his health doesn’t come to
outweigh the drawbacks it’s not an action I can justify taking.”
Elric is frowning. “Is that on me?”
Alphonse shakes his head. “Qi beacons are visible to other alkahestrists. It’s not specific.”
“So you stuck a flare down his pants,” Elric concludes, like that’s fine.
Dumbledore, at least, says what Hermione’s thinking. “What exactly did you do?”
“Agitated a meridian in the body’s natural qi system. He may feel like he has a sore throat
occasionally. I’ll relax it again when we leave.” Alphonse doesn’t sound at all concerned,
nodding at the locket and the wand in front of him. “Are we demonstrating?”
“Yeah,” Elric says sourly, flicking the chain of the locket with a gloved finger and leveling a
grudge of a look at Dumbledore. “You. Explain the whore cores. In detail.”
There’s a pause. “The horcruxes,” Dumbledore says, with some care.
“That’s what I said.” Elric’s face is hard. “Our alchemies are more similar than I knew. This
thing might be the same too. So. Tell me about binding souls to objects, and I’ll be able to tell
you definitively whether the fucking kid was capable of passing on information or not. And
whether that fucking necklace that was in this fucking house all along was passing anything
on, too.”
Hermione feels a cold jolt run through her as she realizes the extent of that possibility. If
Kreacher’s necklace had been like Riddle’s diary, possessing Ginny the more she interacted
with it - could the locket have possessed Kreacher? Kreacher, who went anywhere in the
house he pleased and heard everything and was already ill, already not in his right mind? But
- no, Kreacher was the one who destroyed the locket…
“All metal,” Mustang says. “The array first. We don’t know how much time we have.”
“No, I want a get the run down of the soul shit before this guy fucks off again,” Elric says
bluntly, staring at Dumbledore. “Since that’s apparently also how they put up their fidelity
shit in the first place.”
“All metal,” Mustang says again, looking ready to make an issue out of it, but Dumbledore
holds up a hand, palm out. “I would like to hear this, if you please.”
“That locket,” Bones says, eyeing it on the table and looking like she’s just tasted something
nasty. “Mad-Eye said some of them would be traps. That diary of his -“
“Kreacher reports that the locket was extracted from Voldemort’s keeping at great cost,
ordered to speak the truth by the Master of his House,” Dumbledore says. “He cannot lie
under those conditions. It’s further highly unlikely that he would be the one to destroy it, if it
had been capable of exerting that kind of influence.”
“It don’t matter jack shit. That thing’s dead,” Elric says shortly, his gesture at the locket so
dismissive it’s condescending. “Explain the whore things.”
Dumbledore hasn’t taken his gaze off Elric. “As I said before, the full processes of the
creation of a horcrux are not known to me. We only know the goal of the ritual, and its cost.
The intent of a horcrux is to bind its creator to life, though the most it can achieve is
preserving a state of undeath. To create a Horcrux, a wizard must deliberately damage their
own soul, using that damage to split off a portion and bind it to an object, a preservation of a
piece of themselves should the body fail. That process, that damage, can only be initiated one
way, and that is by committing murder.”
“Nah,” Elric says, with absolute confidence. “It’s just the easy way.”
There’s a short silence as everyone just sort of stares at him. Elric cocks his head at
Dumbledore, something too bitter to even be a smirk briefly shaping his mouth, though
there’s definitely amusement there. “What? You already accused me of human transmutation.
Well, bingo bango, you’re fucking right. My experience ain’t theoretical.” He plants both
hands on the table and stands up. “Alright. Let’s say fifty per cent of that ain’t horse shit.” He
gestures at Dumbledore with one hand, pulling chalk out of a pocket with the other and
beginning to scrawl directly on the table. “First off. Was lord vinyl player spying on us and
can he use that shit to do so in future. No.”
Mustang has shut his eyes as if he needs to shut off all other stimuli to properly experience
the depths of his exasperation; Hermione, trying to figure out whether Elric just confessed to
doing something worse than murder wants to take a moment herself. Dumbledore, however,
is watching the fluid strokes of Elric’s chalk with an increasing severity to his brow. An array
is taking shape on the table: the exact same one that’d been in the backyard. “That is no
cursebreaker.”
“Of course it’s not,” Elric says distractedly. “Though it sure works like one. So. Some
background.” He makes one horizontal slash of chalk across the table, then reaches behind
him, draws a knife from his back harness with dull schck and drops it between the locket and
Harry’s wand. “Body, spirit, soul,” Elric says, lining all three items up in a triangular
configuration before him. “The physical tether, the animating force, the cognitive driver.
When all three of these cross the threshold -“ He drags his finger over, through to the other
side of the single chalk line “- death is irrecoverable.”
Then he drags his finger back, to just before the chalk slash. “But there’s a space here. And a
window of opportunity.” He takes the locket - what he’d named the body - and takes it to the
line. “The components of life can be separated and transmuted independently. A soul can be
removed from the body and attached to a different container, and the spirit linking the two
can similarly be detached and reattached. But each of these remains distinct and whole - a
soul doesn’t split, it can’t. How do you split someone’s memories, their personality, their
cognitive self? You can degrade the integrity of the whole, but you don’t get separate
functional pieces that way, you just get raw energy. With a lot of screaming involved. Which
brings us to your murder shit.”
Elric drops his hand to the array, tapping with the chalk at points all around the border:
Hermione cranes to see, trying to memorize as best she can. “Transmutations take energy. To
transmute any aspect of a human takes a lot of energy. It doesn’t always cost an entire life.
But life force can be used in alchemy. That’s what an array rebound is: you get the math
wrong, fuck up the intake calculations, it takes the difference out of you. And if you’re
willing to feed someone else into the array, so that the energy of their spirit and soul pays for
your transmutation, then you’ve offloaded the costs and all that’s left is to direct the result.
But you can do it yourself, no murder necessary. If you’re willing to risk the price.”
“The price,” Dumbledore repeats, raising his eyes from the array.
Elric meets his gaze. “I told you,” he says, dragging one leg up, his booted foot landing with
a thump against the edge of his chair. “I pick fights with God.”
Is he saying what Hermione thinks he’s saying. That has to be the metal leg. Is this meeting
to - what, tell Dumbledore and Bones that they’ll have to sacrifice people , to pay for the
broken curses? Or - bits of people? Harry had said Wormtail had had to cut off his own hand,
in the ritual to bring You-Know-Who back -
“All metal,” Mustang says wearily, sounding like he dreams of lying down under the nearest
lorry. “We really do not have the time.”
“We’re making the time. I’m sick of this scuttling around shit. We’re getting it straight here
and now,” Elric says mulishly. “Not like this is a secret. Hah! Not more of one, I should say-
“
“Excuse me, I’m sorry, just -“ Bill Weasley interrupts, then pauses, frowning at Elric, like he
wants to be wrong but can’t afford not to confirm just in case he’s right. “Are you saying that
you raised - someone from the dead?”
“Yes,” Alphonse Elric says, and raises his hand in a little wave. “Hi.”
Chapter End Notes
Roy, head in hands, muffled: is the drama really necessary, fullmetal
Ed: iS tHe dRaMa rEaLly nEcEsSaRy fUllmEtaL? Take off your own rubber nose
before you step in the circus if you don’t want to be king of the clowns
Chapter 80
Chapter Notes
Edited this ch a bit to flow better w the next one 1/11/2022
See the end of the chapter for more notes
It’s Alphonse Elric’s turn to stand up, beckoning for the chalk from his brother and getting it.
“As my brother mentioned, the primary reason we were included in this envoy is our
experience with the specific issue of your terrorists’ methods,” he says, speaking into the
silence of everyone else trying to process this - claim to be undead? “Some of this experience
happens to be firsthand.”
“What exactly did you do,” Bones says, not asking.
Alphonse meets her eyes steadily, unsmiling. “Our mother died when we were very young.
We could do some alchemy then already, enough to… believe in miracles. We thought we
could get her back.”
“We got the math wrong,” Elric says, so flat it comes back around to vicious. “It took the
difference out of us.”
Hermione - hadn’t been expecting that. She’d been stuck on the absurdity of someone here,
now, in this room, claiming to have been raised from the dead - while wearing a sweatervest
no less - but this isn’t… that. Trying to raise the dead is dark and strange and unnatural, but
Hermione’s only ever thought about it in the context of Voldemort’s return, of Dark Arts, of a
thirst for power and dominance and immortality, not of - personal tragedy. The sudden sense
of trespass in the room is doubled for being so unexpected, the abrupt discomfort of suddenly
being trapped next to a stranger sobbing on public transit.
“But you tried again,” Dumbledore says.
“Not with our mother,” Alphonse says, with a quiet implacability that says this topic is a
courtesy background and not, in fact, a discussion. “But there we didn’t have the right
conditions regardless.”
It’s Mustang who speaks up, and not in the way Hermione would’ve expected, either, with a
little sigh like he’s once again called to correct a technicality. “You weren’t dead, Alphonse.”
Elric’s folded his arms now, but he says, “No, he’s right, you weren’t. Not like Mom was.”
Alphonse looks squarely at his brother, eyebrows a little raised, then also drags the locket and
Harry’s wand across the chalked line. “Body and soul, I was no longer on this plane. So
whatever was left, was in you.”
“Yeah, but you did have that anchor. That’s why you landed in gatespace, that’s why we have
shared gatespace at all,” Elric argues, gesturing between them. “Because I fucking pulled you
back through me the first time. And you knew it, it’s why you even had your damn girlfriend
murder suicide you out a the armor in the first place.”
There’s a short pause; Hermione can tell she’s not the only one trying to parse that sentence.
“I believe we may be experiencing another translation hiccup,” Bill says tactfully.
Elric makes a disgusted noise and flaps a hand as if it doesn’t matter, still glaring at his
brother. “He was a suit of armor for a while. The point is, he wasn’t dead.”
“In the rebound of their failed attempt on their mother, Alphonse was absorbed entirely by
the array,” Mustang says, sounding like he’d be pinching the bridge of his nose with his eyes
shut if he didn’t already know it wouldn’t in any way help. “All metal intercepted the
reaction in time to substitute part of himself into the energy transfer and managed to retrieve
and bind Alphonse’s soul in exchange. Later on, Alphonse reversed that exchange, which
removed his soul from this plane once more until all metal determined how to retrieve him,
this time along with his body.”
Bones is eyeballing Alphonse, but Dumbledore is now looking at Elric very, very intently.
“You made a horcrux,” he says. “You made yourself the horcrux.”
Elric’s generous upper lip curls, shooting a derisive glance at Dumbledore. “If I did, you got
your fucking math wrong. I didn’t split Al’s -“
Then he cuts himself off, grimacing like he just missed a step down the stairs, and Alphonse
says, “My body, spirit and soul were separated, but as complete components of a whole.” He
taps the locket, knife and wand with the chalk in turn, spreading them apart with his other
hand - moving the soul back away from the line. “I would have died then, but Ed caught me
and anchored my soul to this plane. In doing so, he also anchored my spirit, to himself.” He
moves the knife back as well, closer to Elric. “As a result, my physical body could not pass
through the gate either - the spirit link maintained it, so it stayed in gatespace, and since the
rest of me was bound to - and through - Ed, it remained alive, and grew there.” He taps the
locket, the only one left by the chalked line.
Hermione automatically files away gatespace , though in a slightly hysterical way she also
makes the mental note that it might not even be possible to look up, given the topic is raising
the dead. It’s equally possible the word is affected by the translation magic, because she can’t
imagine what it’s referring to - some kind of connection? The chalked line Elric had drawn.
The - place before death? Purgatory?
“Your body grew,” Dumbledore says slowly, not quite a statement, as Bill and Bones and
Hermione all just stare. “While not on this plane?”
Elric inhales and exhales deep through his nose, like somebody with no choice but to walk
barefoot over gravel or explain for the fiftieth time what a telephone is, and puts his palms
together in front of his face. “Alright. There’s this thing called a gate. In every human is the
potential to access tectonic energy and use it as alchemical energy, and the conversion point,
the translation matrix, is the gate. That’s not what the gate is, but it’s what it does. And since
energy equals matter equals mass this opens the possibility of physical transfer as well, which
you should be real fuck in familiar with, popping in and out all over the place as you fuck in
do.”
It’s very strange to have Elric’s usual garbled torrent of expletives lapse into sentences that
sound read from a textbook, not least because Hermione is pretty sure this is not because of
the translation stone, but it’s making this meeting more surreal with every sentence. “Only to
access gatespace at all ,” Elric continues, harsh, “you need colossal expenditure of
alchemical energy and that’s just to start. It’ll tear you up to get there if you don’t have
enough to pay, and it’ll take even more to get out.”
His face is hard. “When you get eaten by an array, the gate is where you go. It wants energy,
so it takes your matter and your mass. If there’s nothing to balance the scales for you, that’s
it. But I had enough to make the trade. When I got Al’s soul back the first time, I had to bring
it back to our plane - had to translate the energy back into corporeality, so it had to pass
through my gate, the matrix of translation. When I got his body and soul back -“
Here his face tightens briefly, an odd, fleeting spasm. “I’d destroyed my own gate, so we
passed through his. And the only reason we could do either of those is because our spirits got
linked in that first go. At no point did either of our souls get split - if anything they merged,
or mirrored or whatever. And Al never really died.
And all this,” he says pointedly, “is to say, that what was in the furry kid was most likely a
link to lord vanilla bean’s fucking spirit. Not his soul. And that link does not transmit
information except on the molecular level, but even if it did it wouldn’t matter, because we
proved that even if you connect one soul to another, that’s not enough to animate the medium,
the body it’s attached to. I didn’t feel it when Al’s connection was deteriorating, and I
couldn’t pilot his body just as he couldn’t pilot mine. Moreover, rejection is an inevitability
of the procedure and proceeds on an exponential degradation curve. You get half a decade if
you’re lucky.”
There’s another short silence, as once again everybody takes in the wall of… facts come
piling in on Elric’s rough delivery. “Did your link with your brother give you true dreams
about each other?” Dumbledore asks steadily, his voice quiet and clear. “Pain you when the
other was angry, or pained themselves?”
“I didn’t experience physical sensation at all for the duration of my discorporealization,”
Alphonse says. “Nor did I sleep. It’s possible that if I was bound to living biological tissue as
in the case here, the side effects would’ve been different.”
“Barry the chopper,” Elric says suddenly, pretty much exclusively to his brother, then turns
back to the rest of the table. “The spirit link does exert a force on both ends of the equation.
Al’s soul started to lose integrity on this plane due to the force of the body pulling it back,
seeking reintegration - but that’s the body calling. With lord vindaloo’s body gone, the only
kind of ‘information’ he’d get from the kid is a kind of - homing signal, maybe. But given the
kid was just sitting out in the middle of some park all summer and lord waterbus didn’t just
go murder him, at least not until just fucking now, I doubt it’s been relevant.”
“If that is indeed what happened,” Dumbledore says, in a tone that doesn’t refute or deny or
confront in any way but is firm nonetheless. “Voldemort did not make a study of alchemy
himself. The principles of the soul, however… I do not think we can reasonably say that the
laws that govern such are different in alchemy from in magic. If at the moment the Killing
Curse rebounded, Voldemort’s soul was connected to Harry’s, through the… transfer of
energy, of both spell, and the magical backlash that often occurs with a wizard’s violent
death…”
Hermione almost says aloud that that sounds more like what would’ve happened if Voldemort
created a ghost, only instead of imprinting on the surroundings he somehow imprinted on
Harry, and only just catches herself in time. “That doesn’t matter. The point is, you’re saying
the whore whatevers are all soul tethers. I’m saying, there isn’t more than one,” Elric says.
“And it makes no sense for it to be fucking inanimate. I told you. There’s already
compatibility issues, disconnects between the medium and the field. You want to split a soul
and make it move? Let’s lobotomize you, see how well you drive a car.” He shakes his head,
picking up the locket and hefting it demonstratively. “It’d have to be an artificial construct
entirely. And a locket has no arms or legs. It was never meant to move. If your whore
whatever works like you say, then this is exactly what it was meant to be - a tether, nothing
else. And it probably worked exactly as intended.”
Here he jerks his chin, towards the door and out at the rest of the house. “If your lord variety
show tethered himself to the kid, then the kid is necessary to bringing him back. Which is
why he got kidnapped for the resurrection, isn’t it. Lord whackadoo didn’t bring any of his
easily transportable inanimate objects to his little necro party - he kidnapped a live,
struggling kid, which is a fuck of a lot more trouble to deal with than some necklace or book.
That tells me the kid is the tether, and everything else is decoys, traps and tools.”
Dumbledore doesn't argue, or even look like he wants to argue. He simply says, “We cannot
afford you being wrong.”
“Then it’s you who must find them, Albus,” Bones says, turning to him. “And quickly. We
already cannot spare anyone, and it’s not as though we’ve any experts in this besides you.
You aren’t wrong: if we leave any chance for Voldemort to come back, we’ll just be doing
this all over again in another fifteen years. But we can’t afford to divert people from taking
the Death Eaters either. They are what ravaged us last time, and even with the Dark Lord
gone they still did damage. We aren’t going to make the mistakes of the last war here.”
“I do not argue, Amelia,” Dumbledore says, though his eyes are still on Elric’s chalkmarks.
“It is precisely due to the casualties of the last war that I must be more cautious now, that we
must choose our targets carefully. And if you are to target Lucius Malfoy, I fear we will lose
more than we gain, when we can already so ill afford to lose.”
“I wouldn’t be too concerned about that,” Mustang speaks up, startling Hermione. “All metal.
If you’re quite finished.”
“Quite,” Elric says, and puts his hand down on his chalked circle.
The array ignites, light chasing down the lines from Elric’s hand, pure white: that same
searing shine they’d seen outside. “None of your shit fucking matters,” he tells Dumbledore,
as a hum rises that Hermione can feel in her teeth. “You were fucking right, old man.
Cursebreaker? Hah! Amestris doesn’t have curses. Alchemy deals with the fundamental laws
of the universe. If there is a transmutation that removes curses, then it’s removing magic. It
affects what magic even is.”
The light of the array flares brighter and brighter, too bright to look at directly, and
Hermione, numbly, starts to feel the same cold click of datasets sliding into place, disparate
facts and theories and new information coalescing into one, like when she’d figured out that
Slytherin’s monster was a basilisk. Alchemy deals with the foundational properties, wrote
Claudius Ptolemy in Hē Megalē Syntaxis, where spellwork compels at a higher level,
allowing complexities such as the immaterial and illusory that the basing arts, solid in their
constructs though they are, cannot access…
“That’s why fixing the kid worked,” Elric continues. “The fuckin’ thing was stuck onto him
with magic, so by removing all the magic from him, we broke off everything that was stuck
on, too. Same as what happened with the ex-werewolf.”
He takes his hand away, but the circle’s glow remains, lighting his face up from below and
putting an eerie shine on his mean, mean smile. “This thing eats all magic, wizard. Your lord
vanity table is fucked.”
Chapter End Notes
Hermione: ...did shit -
Dumbledore: shit just got real, yes
Chapter 81
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
This statement, coming on the heels of claims of - of - undeath as it does, takes a second to
sink in, but nobody in this room is a particularly slow thinker. A small, busy silence follows,
as the relevant implications land and begin to bloom into the kind of intense, worrying looks
that Hermione feels quite entitled to partake in. Dumbledore in particular is staring at
Mustang with an expression that says a lot of information is being updated in a great hurry -
and worse: a lot of suspicions are now proving true.
Bones, however, is sitting forward, a certain calculating glint growing in her eye. “Any
magic?” she presses. “Any spell?”
Elric makes some kind of complex operatic gestures with his hands that Hermione can’t tell
are meant to be emotional or technically illustrative. “I can’t say there aren’t types of magic
because none of you have studied it and I still haven’t been to a library - but so far it absorbs
fields, that’s translation stones, and shit that’s latent or anchored or hosted or whatever in
both dead and living organic matter. That’s the kid and his magic stick. So that’s, I dunno,
three kinds? Two? I could tell you more if we did more testing, only we fucking invented this
whole fucking thing this morning.”
Bill makes a noise of disbelief that sounds involuntary. “We did tell you,” Mustang says, and
there’s enough pleasure in his voice to make Hermione’s hackles rise. “Fullmetal is the
expedited option.”
“But how does it work?” Bill says.
Elric casts a jaundiced eye at him. “Unless you’re a fucking expert in electromagnetic
radiation,” he says with exaggerated patience, “that question is not gonna explain things like
you think it will.”
Hermione once again nearly outs herself by snapping tell us anyway. She knows what
electromagnetic radiation is, and even if she’s not an expert she can certainly learn, and Bill
can too for that matter, as can everyone else at this table, they’re not stupid and this is a pretty
critical thing for them to need the knowledge for. “Magic is a form of energy,” Alphonse tells
Bill, insensate to Hermione vibrating behind them, then tips his head at his brother. “He
figured out how to trap it.”
“No magic,” Bones says slowly, the glint in her eye now spreading, teeth showing in her
smile. “No curses. And you can cure werewolves. He can’t sic Greyback on his enemies
anymore. Oh, yes. Very well done, my lad,” she tells Edward, her tone rich with vicious
satisfaction. “What do you need? You said you wanted more tests?”
“Yeah, if it’s going in combat conditions we need to know which way shit will jump,” Elric
says, unimpressed with her approval but clearly happy to deal with someone who wants to
give him what he wants. “Same with how we still need to test fuckin’ ricochet. If there’s
blowback or whatever from bigshot stuff going down better to know now.”
“Allow me.” Dumbledore stands up, raising an arm, his sleeve falling back to reveal his
wand.
Hermione can see the Amestrisans tense, Mustang’s hand falling from where he had two
fingers pressed to his temple to rest below the table. Dumbledore does not seem to notice,
simply casting “Evalare,” the wand pointed directly at the glowing array.
Nothing happens. “Diminuendo.” Nothing. “Colovaris.” Nothing again. “Baubilious,” he
says says, and this time a bolt of jagged yellow light strikes the circle - but Hermione can see
that he aimed at the center, and it dissipates at the boundary, great crackling white arcs
lashing around the border as the array eats it up.
Dumbledore doesn’t pause, just casts “Deprimo,” a soundless ripple of air shoving out of his
wand - and also jarring hard against the circle, the grain of the table juddering at the border.
“Defodio.” A gout of wood slices up, carving a narrow divot that once again stops hard at the
lit line. “Lumos solem.” A narrow beam of golden light leaves his wand like a laser penlight,
again terminating at the boundary - in empty air, half a meter off the table, the array singing
and sparking below the point of interaction.
The light cuts off as Dumbledore lowers his wand, his face strict with evaluative focus. “Shit,
keep going,” Elric says, eyes now greedy instead of wary on the wand. “What else you got?
Any of that area effect shit?”
“I cannot shrink, break, overload or interrupt the array, nor change its color,” Dumbledore
says, and the recitation makes Hermione realize what he was doing: systematic testing,
examining the different properties of an unknown. “Not with spellwork. It affects all magic
within its bounds, it seems, and disallows spells to pass through its domain.”
“Perfect,” Bones says, her tone hard with satisfaction.
“Some would say you have done the impossible,” Dumbledore says, in a thoughtful way that
Hermione can’t define as approving or otherwise, not retaking his seat, though he does let his
sleeve slip over his wand again. “That has been said of more than one wizard, however, and
most oft of Voldemort, of late.” Then, as Hermione’s parsing that, he turns a hard, piercing
look not on Elric but onto Mustang. “This is why you believe the Fidelius has broken.”
Hermione goes cold. She feels as if the ghost of the Hogwarts Express took a sudden hard
right off the rails, leapt several hundred miles of intervening land and blew through the wall
to ding her in the side. Of course. If the array eats all magic, anything it touches, then setting
it off inside a spell - that would be a terrible idea. That’s exactly what they’d done. Why did
they do that?
Elric scowls immediately, but the way his shoulders hike is defensive, like he knows - like he
agrees. Did they do it on purpose? Did Mustang order him to do it and he disagreed? Why
would they do it on purpose? But in the yard - Hermione goes even colder. Bones had said -
if the Death Eaters descended on them now, and she called in her Aurors, ostensibly
answering an active distress call, then there would be no way the Ministry could justify
withholding aid, nor ignore that the war was happening, even if they wouldn’t acknowledge
Voldemort’s return.
Had they done it as bait?
“You yourself said we don’t have confirmation that it did break,” Alphonse says, placid, but
the tightness in his brother’s expression is enough to make it clear that Dumbledore is right.
“The discharge of energy caused by furry’s intervention was still very much significant
enough to disrupt any other local electromagnetic flows, however. Better safe than sorry.”
“Hold on,” Bones says, now also frowning, glancing between the circle and Dumbledore. “If
you’re saying - the entire yard is charmed, it’s an Expandable Lawn Extension. If it was
affecting ambient surrounding spellwork like that it’d be the first to go.”
“The lawn was already extended at the time of their use, however,” Dumbledore says, not
taking his steady gaze off Mustang. “In its base state. If the Expansion charm was dissipated
then no outward change would occur.”
“Our plans remain the same,” Mustang says coolly, and stands as well. “We must move
regardless, to set up our next phases and separate out the noncombatants. This location has
outlasted its use.”
Which is a politician’s way of saying we broke your wards and now we all need to run from
the fallout. And it doesn’t make sense, if… if it was a deliberate trap, then they wouldn’t be
trying to leave now. And they’d be better prepared, even if they were trying to keep their
preparations secret from the possibility of Harry accidentally leaking it back to the Death
Eaters; they’d be waiting to ambush them. And Bones and Mustang wouldn’t have been
talking about it like that, in the yard - Bones had been talking about it like a happy side effect,
not a plan they’d concocted together and were checking on.
Which, Hermione realizes with mounting indignation to match the horror, sounds like the
Amestrisans broke the Fidelius on accident.
“We’ve developed a tool that significantly alters the tactical landscape in our favor,” Mustang
is continuing, nodding at the still-glowing circle. “This is information that would
significantly set us back to have the enemy discover, and there is still the chance that the boy
was transmitting information, and thus the array’s design, immediately up until his cure. If
Voldemort is as practiced in tampering with souls as you say, then we don’t have any time to
waste.”
“Tampering with souls, indeed,” Dumbledore says. “We would do well to ensure our own
cautions against this. For that is the base of this array, is it not? And that is where the Fidelius
is ultimately anchored. What you removed from Harry, as well. If you are this sure the array
disrupted it - and this is very new technology indeed - what guarantee do you have that it will
not damage others? That it will not remove someone’s magic permanently?”
Hermione, listening to him list her exact fears one by one, kind of wishes she’d run out of
adrenaline at this point. “This particular array does not,” Mustang says, in a coolly assured
tone Hermione finds a little difficult to trust given they broke the Fidelius on accident. “It
was specifically designed not to. We felt it best to keep the effect temporary for now.”
“And we tested it,” Elric says flatly, but Hermione’s seen his range of scowls for three days
straight now and his hackled posture is more defensive than ever now, shoulders turned
almost inwards. “On me, first, and then my brother, and then both of us -“
“Albus,” Bones cuts over him, a coldness in her voice. “Do not forget our plight. Voldemort
is already sending dementors out again, and even if he wanted Potter alive I don’t believe for
a second that their orders weren’t to Kiss anyone who got in their way. If this array makes a
muggle or for that matter rips out a Death Eater’s soul by the toenails it’s not an ounce less
than what they’re trying to do to us.” She stands too, a purposefulness to her movements as
she settles her robes, facing Mustang. “We must tell Mad-Eye as well, as soon as he arrives.
This does change the calculus of our security measures, yes,” she adds dryly. “Albus - MadEye is as much a specialist as you in handling dangerous magics. He will personally oversee
the application of this new array, and I don’t think either of us could measure up to constant
vigilance. Nor would we best serve by attempting it. We left the Ministry as the alarm was
raised regarding Harry’s Trace,” she tells Mustang. “They’ve doubled the Auror teams
searching for him.”
“I imagine they now have extra reason to think him dead,” Mustang agrees, nodding at
Harry’s broken wand on the table. “It suits us to encourage this. We’ll have less potential
interference if they aren’t searching for him, however - we’ve a sheep carcass we can use to
fake a corpse, if necessary.”
Both Elrics stiffen and gasp simultaneously. “What? No!”
“Betsy’s for eating,” Elric says, aghast. “She’s not for alchemy -”
“We’re having barbecue,” Alphonse says, aggrieved.
Mustang gives them an unimpressed look. “Stop naming dead animals, all metal, it’s not
healthy. We aren’t finalizing our next steps now regardless - we should leave within the half
hour if not sooner, and once we’re in a better defended position -“
Elric continues arguing, saying something about mistreatment of animals, but Hermione’s
looking at Dumbledore, whose eyes are on Bones, then on Mustang. She doesn’t quite know
how to articulate the growing dread in her gut but she knows that Dumbledore’s seeing
something there, something she also wishes she wouldn’t see. Mustang and Bones had agreed
that Dumbledore should go off alone, after those - horcruxes. Redirecting Dumbledore, just
like Mustang had said they’d do. And everything they’d said made sense, as Hermione
understood it, and it’s not that she thinks there’s some kind of - of plot - well, now she
doesn’t - the Amestrisans have killed dementors and exorcized Harry and cured Lupin and
they are here to defeat Voldemort.
But Bones and Mustang are now unified in a way they weren’t quite before, and they want
Dumbledore out of the picture. And all the reasons Hermione can think of for why are not
encouraging.
The Amestrisans have killed dementors. Hermione hadn’t realized the extent of what Elric
had done, at the time, but even watching him wandlessly twist the overpass into itself, asphalt
and cement and dirt bulging and surging in on itself like bread dough, the stocky shape of
him almost lost in blue lightning, she’d known it was power of a kind she’d never seen
before. It had been a flare of hope, then, a savage kind of satisfaction: here they were, allies
for the Order that might be able to even the odds, give them a fighting chance against
Voldemort.
Well. She wasn’t wrong. They’ve killed dementors, destroyed Sirius’ mother’s portrait, did
something to the boggart that sounded like a cannon firing indoors and now found a way to
cancel spells. And that’s all apart from the - the raising the dead story that Hermione’s not
sure she believes, or is at least quite sure she doesn’t have all the information on. But what
she does know for sure is that the Amestrisans don’t think much of the way wizards do
things, and they are really good at destruction.
And now there’s an array to shut off magic. Maybe take away someone’s magic permanently.
What happens after Voldemort?
Chapter End Notes
hermione, getting her Baby’s First Soft Coup experience: really wishing i had to use my
junior political acumen to suss out umbridge instead of the head of the dmle and fucking
mustang
Chapter 82
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Where’s Hermione?”
They’re almost packed: Harry didn’t exactly have much to gather, given he never unpacked
in the first place, but Fred or George had helpfully ‘dropped’ one of their open trunks down
the stairs just as Harry escaped from the room with Hughes and Alphonse, and Harry was
happy to help clean up, seeing as it got him collecting various jokeshop paraphernalia at the
very bottom of the stairs nearest the closed meeting door, even if he did have to get rapidly
and extremely good at differentiating between real and fake dungbombs. But now they’re
back upstairs, he hadn’t been able to hear anything, and Ron’s giving the doorway dark looks
in between trying to catch Pigwidgeon. “What if the Elrics got her?”
Ginny, ramming her own trunk shut, says, “What do you mean, got her?”
“Well they buried Sirius half to the neck and broke Harry’s wand - what if she’s stuck
somewhere too?”
“We’re about to leave, they wouldn’t trap her here - we’d notice,” Ginny says sensibly, under
Pigwidgeon’s excited hooting.
“Yeah, but they could do something else,” Ron says darkly. “And she’s got the cloak. If they
catch her -“
And then there Hermione is, panting, ripping off the cloak, something wild in her face. “Shut
the door,” she says immediately, curls plastered to her forehead, eyes huge. “Shut the door,
shut -“
Fred and George careen into the room just before Harry shoves it shut, having caught sight of
Hermione from their room across the hall. “What is it?” Harry says urgently. “What
happened?”
“Muffliato,” Hermione whispers feverishly, flicking her wand, then again, then again;
Pigwidgeon’s hooting grows progressively more muffled, as if a bubble has surrounded them
with him outside it, and Hermione points her last gesture directly at the door. “Quietus -“
“Hermione! What happened?”
“They broke the Fidelius,” Hermione says, so fast she’s nearly gasping it out. Harry’s jaw
drops. “Their circle, it’s why we have to leave, it’s why - they -“
“What?” Fred hisses.
“What the bloody hell are they - are they trying to get us found?” Ron demands, rearing back
a bit in anger and surprise. “All that talk about turning the house elf loose -“
“No! It wasn’t on purpose, they -“ Hermione’s still panting, clawing sweaty hair back from
her face with one hand while shoving the Cloak at Harry with the other. “It was on accident,
they were trying to - Harry. Your wand didn’t break because it was connected to You-KnowWho. It was - drained dry. Eaten up. Their circle - it isn’t just a cursebreaker. It eats magic:
all magic. From things, from people -“
“What?” Ron says, aghast, Ginny with her mouth open beside him.
“And Elric - he has done… things.” Hermione darts a glance at Ron, something almost guilty
passing over her face as she pants. “The circle they made, it does do - it can affect souls,
Dumbledore said, he was worried about it, he said it had to be able to affect souls, that was
why it could even affect the Fidelius. And I think it’s true, or at least the Amestrisans think
it’s true, too, because - they said they’d done it before. Magic with souls. Elric, he - he says
he brought his brother back from the dead.”
There’s a stunned, frozen moment that immediately goes explosive. “Like an Inferi?”
“Like Voldemort?”
“I knew it,” Harry says explosively, relieved that he’s not crazy. He saw something and it was
real. “There’s something wrong with him, up close - Alphonse - he doesn’t - move right -“
“And Dumbledore thinks You-Know-Who - came back the same way,” Hermione says, even
more intent, clicking Harry’s mouth shut. Fred and George both equally fixed on her, Ginny
staring wide-eyed, Ron grim. “He says he came back through - he’s alive because of - there’s
something called horcruxes. Pieces of his own soul, he bound them to - objects, and things.
And Elric - did that with his brother. He said he bound his brother’s soul to himself, like - like
You Know Who did to Harry - because they did something to his brother’s body, and that’s
why he lost his leg -“
Hermione gulps, then takes a couple of hard, deep breaths, visibly pulling herself together.
Nobody interrupts. “But they didn’t make the circle to cure Harry. They thought it would
work on him too, but - it’s a weapon. That’s why it worked on all the cursed things. On
Lupin. It just takes all magical energy and - eats it up.” She swallows again, meeting all their
eyes in turn. “They were talking about making another version. They want to be able to turn
wizards into muggles. Permanently.”
“Bloody hellfire,” Fred breathes, something almost like awe in his face. Ron’s eyes are
almost perfectly round now. Harry thinks about how it felt, how it was like all of reality was
being sucked away from him. His wand that saved him, in the graveyard. His fists tighten
around the Cloak.
“Hang on,” Ginny says slowly, sounding suddenly very thoughtful. “That’s good, though.
That’s perfect. That’s just the thing for Death Eaters and all their nasty pureblood talk -“
Hermione gestures, frustrated. “And then what?”
“Lucius Malfoy gets a job at Testo’s?” Ginny says.
“And then what? When we’re all fresh out of Death Eaters, what’s stopping them from doing
the same to someone else? ”
“If they can take away someone’s magic, they can do whatever they like,” Ron says, white
faced. “Anyone who pisses them off -“
“Exactly! And it’s Tesco, not Testo’s - just - listen. Dumbledore’s leaving,” Hermione
stresses. “He’s going to hunt the horcruxes down - if he doesn’t, You Know Who will just
come back again, and he even said nobody else can do it, but he’s not happy about it - Bones
is doing as Mustang wants already. We have to be very careful, do you all understand?”
Hermione looks a mess, like every homework essay and final exam has been rolled into one,
like she’s just found out everything that’s been withheld from them in one gulp. Her eyes are
deadly serious. “We need to start being careful right now. Dumbledore’s not in charge
anymore.”
“What do you mean, not in charge?” Harry demands.
Ron looks even more alarmed. “He’s leaving the Order?”
“I mean he’s not going to be here. Which leaves Bones in charge. And Mustang. And Bones
is - she’s the one who brought the Amestrisans in, it’s -“
“My parents follow Dumbledore -”
“Yes, but he’s not going to be here,” Hermione hisses. “And they will listen to Bones, and so
will Mad-Eye. And Bones just wants whatever will beat the Death Eaters, which means she
listens to Mustang, because he’s giving it to her. And Dumbledore -“
She shakes her head once, a sharp, frustrated gesture. “- hasn’t been able to.”’
“They’re still on our side, though, yeah?” George says, looking uncharacteristically uneasy.
“The Unplottables. If they didn’t break the Fidelius on purpose -“
“No,” Ron says harshly. “They’re on their side. You heard them talk about us, about magic -
Hermione’s right. They don’t care who gets hurt. They broke Harry’s wand. They can do
worse now. They’re getting rid of anyone who can stand up to them -“
“No.” Hermione grips briefly at her hair, as frustrated and inarticulate as Harry’s ever seen
her. “I - I’m not saying they’re evil, I’m saying we need to be careful. If something goes
wrong - Dumbledore’s not going to be around to fix it, and - and we can’t tell anybody.
They’re trying to keep the array secret, and - and we have to, too.”
“And let somebody else fall in and get their wands broken?” Ron says, shocked. “Hermione!”
“Listen! If Lucius Malfoy gets his hands on something that makes wizards muggles, what do
you think he’s going to do? Who do you think he’s going to use it on?”
“But if they use it on Malfoy -“
“It doesn’t have to be Malfoy. It can be anybody - he’s not the only one who thinks
muggleborns shouldn’t be allowed! You want Snape to find out? To even know something
like it is possible? Besides. Nobody else knows. It was only Bones in the room, and
Dumbledore, and Bill. And if we act like we know, they’ll realize we have ways of finding
out that we shouldn’t. Like the Cloak.” Hermione actually reaches over to grab Harry’s arm
and brandish his fistful of fabric at Ron. “They already think Harry’s a spy. We can’t give
them any excuses.”
“So what do we do?” Harry demands.
“They’re getting rid of Dumbledore,” Ron agrees. “We have to do something. What if those
bastards do something else on ‘accident’?”
Hermione opens her mouth, but suddenly Pigwidgeon’s hooting is at full volume again and
sound floods back in from the rest of the house as the door opens. “There you are - you’re all
packed?” Mrs. Weasley demands, her hair several orders of magnitude frizzier than even just
ten minutes before. “What are you doing? Ginny, Hermione, you come here - we’re to
portkey in groups, you’re with us -“
“Mum! Careful, close the door quick - we haven’t been able to catch Pig, he keeps trying to
fly into the hall -“
Ginny immediately jumps to support her story, Pig gleefully tumbling away from her wild
swipe; Mrs. Weasley seems to buy it, inasmuch as she starts exasperatedly spelling their
trunks into the hall and summoning Pig’s cage zooming to her hand as she berates Fred and
George for the state of their abandoned room. Hermione gives Harry and Ron one hard,
determined look under the chaos, her expression not quite offsetting the nerves in the line of
her mouth. “We’ll see,” she says under her breath, and turns to follow Mrs. Weasley.
Chapter End Notes
Finally. FINALLY we are LEAVING GRIMMAULD PLACE
Chapter 83
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The teleportation this time isn’t any fucking improvement on the other occasions, only this
time Ed lands on a grassy slope, a rocky trail leading down into a valley on the left and thick
pine forest rising to the right. Portly chickens lurch and peck around a cluster of stone and
thatch huts with various wooden outhouses by the trail, with a couple of peaked roofs more
distant visible beyond the bend. A goat stares balefully at them from the treeline, not
impressed enough by a whole pack of freaks zapping out of nowhere to stop chewing what
appears to be a piece of shoe.
“Now this is more like it,” Ed says, completing his rotation, feeling his mood lift of its own
accord. He just fucked everything through an alchemical carelessness he thought he’d
outgrown at age eleven, but nobody’s dead yet and here the air is crisp and clear if a lot
colder, without a hint of car exhaust or moldering dust; the sky is a terrific blue, a handful of
dozy clouds scudding beyond the edges of the nearby mountaintops. It’s barely past noon.
They left in kind of a rush, what with their little meeting leaving Ed and Al without more
time than to just scoop up their packs and go, as the second Pirate came back with the allclear they started teleporting groups out of there. As such, when Ed turns to Al to help him
carry Betsy he sees he is also, in addition to his cane, holding a sizeable meat cleaver.
“Where did you get that?”
“The house,” Al says. “I think it gave it to me.”
“What do you mean, gave it to you?”
“It was hanging on a hook next to her,” Al says, hefting his half of Betsy more securely onto
his shoulder. “It wasn’t there when we went to hang her up.”
“Well that’s normal,” Ed says disgruntledly. On the one hand, they’ve left the dubiously
sentient moldbasket, but on the other hand, they’re once again in a locale with dubious
shower availability and the house had been giving them shit like jam and cleavers. On the
other other hand, that probably meant that it was luring them into a false sense of security and
planning to murder them with poisoned teacake or some shit down the line.
At least now they’re outdoors. The entire group is heading further into the cluster of huts,
which seems to be the final destination. There’s more goats here: most are stocky enough to
be meat goats, but a couple are definitely dairy, and the mix tells Ed that this is a working
farm and whoever lives here feeds themselves.
And isn’t looking to feed others, judging by the sound of it. “Absolutely not,” some old guy
in a smock is saying hoarsely to Pirate, jerking an emphatic finger towards his chest.
“Barging into my home - what’s Albus bloody thinking, there isn’t room -“
“We’ll make room,” Pirate says brusquely. “It’s temporary.”
“Hogs mead is right bloody there!” Farm guy’s got a bucket in one gesturing hand and a hair
situation to rival Beardy’s - put him in a purple dress and they’d be identical, frankly. “If it’s
so bloody temporary -“
“We can’t stay in the inn, people will bloody notice if we Fidelius it off the map,” Pirate
snaps, clearly losing his temper. “The dark lord’s back, you were in the order last time, you
can stand having a few kids in your shed for a sodding weekend -“
“What’s wrong with hog warts, then?”
“Mister dumbell door,” Bones says, stepping forward; huh, seems like Farmer and Beardy
are related. “We need your help. I’m sure Albus has told you -“
Farmer gives something more a hack than a laugh, impressive with derision. “Of course he
bloody well hasn’t!”
Bones has the implacability of a bureaucrat, however, and doesn’t break stride. “- that we
have need of quarter. Albus has already set the Fidelius - and you cannot imagine it won’t
benefit you as well, seeing as you know who is back and taking action -“
Pirate shakes his head once and stumps off, jerking his head for Ponytail and the pink
shapeshifter to follow. Beardy’s already gone - he’d set off among the sheds the second they
all zapped in, his stick out and moving with purpose, presumably to set up some fresh soul
wards. Ed had followed him, on the basis that if the ward really is anchored in the soul then
he wants to fucking see Beardy do it, but the actual creation of such turned out to be one
short, sharp sentence of gibberish and a corresponding stab of his wand. At that point
Hawkeye had summoned Ed to help canvas the rest of the place, having learned the hard way
about what wizards do and do not consider a cleared safehouse, and Beardy had gone, “I
must leave it in your hands, Amelia, I will send word as soon as sever us returns,” and
zapped himself back out again, so that was that.
The kids are still sort of milling around with their various animals - the chimera’s not here
yet, which is mixed news - but Mustang follows Pirate and leads them inside the main
building, where the ramshackle cabin reveals itself to be of the same breed of physical
fuckery as the other house and turns out to be significantly bigger on the inside.
Significantly cleaner, too. There’s a fairly pervasive smell of goat, but Ed’ll take healthy
animals over mutant fungal colonies and decomposing wallpaper any day. They do a circuit
of the entire farm in pairs; Ed, with Arget, discovers that there’s an honest to god dairy in one
of the shacks that - on the outside - looks like it was put together with spit and not
particularly devout prayer. “Shit, it’s a real farm,” Ed says, impressed, eyeing the pats of
butter in the cool room - which properly cold, screened from the main room with a sheet of
thick waxcloth. “Think he’ll sell us more meat?”
“Boss,” Havoc calls from outside, as Arget makes a sort of mm? noise of noncommitment.
“Take a look at this.”
He sounds cheerful, though, not ominous, so Ed goes over to where he and Jones are
investigating another shed - this one a distillery. “Hot damn,” Ed breathes, inhaling deep of
the rich, loamy smell of whiskey.
“Think it’s why it looks so shit on the outside?” Havoc says, nodding at the shiny brass
boiler. “Nothin’ to see here, officers…”
“No whoring. Liquor law wouldn’t surprise me at all,” Ed agrees. That’s what Aerugo’s got,
and why Amestris keeps getting tourists from there even though they’re barely keeping to the
ceasefire.
“Or hard tax, maybe. Either way, why fix up the outside if the inside isn’t affected at all?”
Jones adds, Arget leaning around him to see into the still. “If they can do it with their…
magic…”
A burst of what sounds like swearing rises over the general hubbub back by the main cabin,
and the four of them exchange glances. Havoc sighs. “All clear this end, boss,” he tells Ed
and lopes back over to where the farmer has started to express his feelings a bit more broad
spectrum and Bones has apparently left the scene. “Sir,” Havoc says. “We’re awful sorry to
intrude on you like this.”
Farmer’s nearly as tall as Havoc, which doesn’t prevent him from rearing back like he needs
six feet of distance just to see all of him. “Who the hell are you?”
“Name’s Jean Havoc, sir, and I’m real sorry to say you’ve met us when we’re in need. Goes
without saying we’re all mighty grateful you’re opening your doors to us.”
“You just stay away from my goats,” Farmer says after a second, harshly, but the Havoc
effect is already taking hold, judging by how he’s not throwing the bucket at him.
“Of course,” Havoc agrees instantly. “You’ve got a good working farm here and we would
never think of allowing any interruption to your business. And if you don’t mind me saying -
we understand it’s an imposition, sir, and we want to do anything we can to even the scales.
We got a construction alchemist - you got anything around here that needs fixed?”
Ed huffs under his breath but leaves Havoc to it, buttering up Farmer so they can hopefully
buy fresh cheese and eggs if not whiskey off the guy later. And not have him turn the hose on
them while they sleep or anything. Mustang’s beckoning, anyway, to where he and Hughes
and Al and Hawkeye are clustered over by the chicken coop, and Ed’s reminded all over
again that despite the sudden improvement to circumstances they are, in fact, technically on
the run. Because he decided to turn off magic, and only thought as far as maybe not in the
house? Story of his life: just fucking smart enough to screw himself and get anybody nearby
into real trouble.
Mustang looks impatient and Hughes martyred; Al, having stashed the cleaver somewhere
along with Betsy, crouches down and picks up a twig, starting to scratch something into the
dirt. Ed would pay closer attention, because whatever Al’s doing is generally more useful and
important than whatever else is going on in the vicinity, only it is, kind of, directly his fault
that they all had to up sticks and get out here, so it’s in his bests interests to keep pace with
what’s going on around him.
Best to be proactive about these things. “So what’s the plan? Are we burning it down and
starting over?”
“We’re burning it down and starting over,” Mustang says.
“See, you never listen to m- what?”
“Their minister is complicit, the terrorist general Malfoy is an appointed official. They’ve got
to go. This opens a significant power vacuum. As the national director of law enforcement,
Bones has precedent to submit her bid for head of state. Presented as the leader of the
operation that brings down the terrorists, she is likely to have widespread support.”
Mustang’s expression is clinical, a doctor describing the pulsating bits of the patient he’s got
spread out below. “And if the support for Albus outweighs hers - well. Either way, the
ensuing restructuring will keep them busy for a while.”
“Because the last thing we want is any of them exporting any of their fun to us,” Hughes
says. “Nor to Xing. And it’s not as though their current situation isn’t in crisis.”
Well. Alright. None of that sounds like outlawing slavery, which is really Ed’s only political
goal here, but he can bug Bones about that himself if he has to. Not like they can really make
this shithole worse. “So beyond the original plan,” Ed says. “Are we doing anything about
their president? Or fuckin’ Beardy?”
“No, that should take care of itself,” Mustang says. “We take Malfoy, the situation will
develop from there. For that, though - we need to evaluate our options. We have the array, but
there are eight of us. We have no idea how many alchemists the enemy has, or what kind, or
how many philosopher’s stones. What we do know is they can outmaneuver us instantly, and
they have roughly a thousand of their dementers. It took thermite to kill two. A frontal assault
is not in our favor.”
Al, from his crouch on the ground, clears his throat. “About that.”
-oHarry’s just put down his trunk - outside this time, as the strange bearded man who seems to
own this farm is now arguing with Mrs. Weasley - when Mad-Eye Moody stumps back from
whatever he’d been doing and levels a piercing look directly at Harry. “Well, boy?”
Harry, who’d been trying to hear more - apparently they’re near Hogsmeade, which means
they’re near Hogwarts, and Dumbledore’s gone again, like he really is avoiding Harry, still -
has no idea what he’s talking about. “Well what?”
“Are you going to stand around all day? Come on!” Mad-Eye jerks his head, indicating Harry
should follow. “We’re out of time, boy! Voldy’s making his move!”
“Where are we going?” Harry demands, because the last time Mad-Eye - or rather someone
very much like him - took him off on his own, absolutely nothing good happened. Ron’s been
pressganged by Bill to get their collective family luggage in; Hermione and Ginny got
hustled inside first thing by Mrs. Weasley, and Harry was going to be right behind them only
he lingered with his trunk and ostensibly getting Hedwig out of her cage in order to try and
hear more. It’s left him alone now.
“Just here, Potter, don’t twist yer knickers.” Mad-Eye’s heading them towards the wide strip
of clear grass before the pines start. It’s past the fences and not exactly on the farm proper -
but it must be covered by the Fidelius, still, and it is in full sight of the main yard, give or
take a few outbuildings. “We won’t be long. We don’t have long, not with the way things are
moving - dementors after you? Hah! It’ll be Death Eaters next, and they’re not so easy to
spur. It’s past time we got you shaped up.”
Then Mad-Eye tosses him - a wand.
Harry catches it, reflexive, and despite the immediate, inescapable sense that this isn’t the
right wand, there’s still a deeper, more visceral sense that it is right: a way to act, to cast, to
fight back. He can feel the magic. He can use it if he has to. It’s a shorter shaft than he’s used
to, slightly thicker, faint roughnesses in unfamiliar places, but it’s warm if slightly dulled
under his hand, ready to cast.
Good thing, too, because Mad-Eye has drawn his own wand, a gleam in his eye. “Ready yer
wand, boy,” he says, and Harry has to note that whatever else, Barty Crouch Jr. was a
remarkably accurate mimic. “I’m gonna teach ye to actually use that stick.”
-oThey all look down. Al’s drawn a pretty simple circle in the dirt - alkahestric, but nothing
fancy, straightforward enough that Ed can parse it out. Al’s also drawn a key, though, the way
they have in little kiddy textbooks, where it explains to you what each symbol stands for and
how it’s used in the circle’s matrix, how it modifies others in the script. Ed frowns and scans
through it as Al presses a fingertip to the edge and activates the array - it’s a simple
oscillating light emitter, and it’s nothing new all the way down, save for how it’s in
alkahestry, except for at the very end: he’s isolated his input and defined it in plaintext.
N=ambient qi.
“I haven’t actually tried to calculate,” Al says quietly. “But I don’t think we’ll have any
power limitations, if we want to… scale things up. And if we scale it big enough…”
Then they can set up huge areas of effect - big enough that they wouldn’t have to worry about
teleportation. Or any other damn magic thing any wizard can throw at them: just like Father
had done, removing alchemy across the whole country. “Fuck me,” Ed says blankly. There’s
that level of available energy just floating around? Good gods. This is further evidence that
‘magic’ is more than just what its electromagnetic readout suggests, because if there is this
much radiation just wafting through this island then they’ve all already started to develop
some kind of brand new cancers. They’d already all be blind, if it truly behaves as some kind
of invisible light.
Mustang actually crouches down, sweeping his coat back to sit on his haunches and study the
array more closely. “You’re certain?”
“I tested it once before, in the house, and it ran uninterrupted until I shut it off. Nearly seven
minutes,” Al says. “Given the math - just from that, we’re already looking at ninety, ninetyfive meters in diameter. Theoretically.”
“Can you translate your current array into alkahestric notation?” Hughes asks lowly, because
he might not be an alchemist, but he’s quick. “Then all we’d have to take on is the
alchemists.”
Al nods. “I’d like to see how far this can scale. If it’s pulling its own energy from ambient qi,
then there may be unprecedented fluctuations in power flow, depending on local density -“
“- and I need to test how their wards shit interacts with alchemy,” Ed says. “Shit. That eyeball
guy’s shield thing took my fucking transmutation apart. If that happens on alkahestry, on any
transmutation - we’re a little fucked.”
Mustang glances up at him, then stands, dusting his gloves. “Alphonse can test both,” he
decides, all up in his commander-in-charge voice. “You have a different job.”
“Like fucking what?”
Hughes‘ attention is back on him too, and he’s grinning. It’s not a very friendly grin. “Why,
Lieutenant Colonel. You’re bait.”
“...Alright,” Ed says suspiciously, because that’s just the same plan as before, and means he
gets to go out and see the local sights besides, even if it is under threat of magic murder. “Me
and the kid gonna get out there and trawl for terrorists. What’s the catch?”
Now even Mustang looks amused, which is even worse. “Why should there be a catch, with
terrorists on the table? Of course, you will need a cover.”
“Nothing too elaborate,” Hughes agrees blithely. “Not with natural assumption on your side.
After all, why would two young men be out and about together?”
“No ,” Ed protests, even though he already knows it’s futile.
“Yes,” Mustang says.
“Oh boy,” Al says.
“Got any better ideas?” Hughes says.
Chapter End Notes
Ed: so are we fixing their problems?
Mustang: of course not. We are, however, giving them new and different ones
Chapter 84
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
The Unplottables have disappeared behind some of the sheds or into the cottage, and Harry
can distantly hear the old farmer still swearing somewhere, but there’s no Ron or Hermione
or even Ginny in sight, and Harry’s warily wondering if they’re going to bow when MadEye’s wand twitches and the ground explodes under his feet.
Harry’s hit the grass before he even realizes what’s happening. “This doesn’t stop until I’m
down or disarmed, boy,” Mad-Eye says, stalking forward, both eyes boring into Harry as he
fights to scramble up from the dirt. “Ye beat the Dark Lord once, but this time you’re going
to have to do it on purpose -“
Harry knows better than to let him finish. “Expelliarmus!”
Mad-Eye’s wand blurs, light flaring in front of him in what might’ve been a Protego only too
fast. “That one don’t work except on the overconfident,” Mad-Eye says, derisive, and slashes
his wand again.
Harry has to leap like a landed fish to avoid Mad-Eye’s next hex, then another, then another,
dodging before he even fully knows what he’s doing, throwing himself desperately sideways,
jets of light screaming through where his head had been. There’s no sign his disarmer even
hit - did Mad-Eye block and counterhex him in one motion? “Stupefy!”
Mad-Eye actually laughs, a raspy heh heh, somehow flicking the stunner aside midair like
he’s flicking water from his wand. “They tell me you won the Triwizard, boy! Display some
adaptability!”
Mad-Eye hadn’t dueled Elric, Harry realizes, somewhere in the blur. Standing still, stumping
along, methodically vanishing chunks of Elric’s maze like a janitor cleaning a preschool
hallway - none of that is what he’s doing now, his wand arm coiling and darting like a snake,
one motion flowing into another, casting three spells back to back so fast it’s like they come
out as one. Less than a minute in Harry’s gasping for breath, pouring sweat and feels like he’s
on fire, and not just because Mad-Eye’s Full-Body Flame hex clipped his arm - he can barely
get a jinx out, he’s too busy dodging and rolling, barely a step ahead of Mad-Eye’s spells.
But Mad-Eye is going easy on him, seeing as he hasn’t so much as put a Protego up, either
dodging or counterhexing Harry’s spells midair, faster than Harry thought was possible.
Harry feels like he’s bailing a sinking boat, tapdancing on quicksand, frantically trying to
recall spells they’d gone over in DADA - something Mad-Eye won’t expect, he’s laughed off
every stunner and Confringo and even Slugulus Eructo Harry’s managed to whip at him,
what the hell worked the last time he’d been against an impossible opponent? Well,
expelliarmus, but he’d tried that, it didn’t work, what else is there?
“Accio Firebolt!” Harry bellows, and Mad-Eye immediately slashes down again as
something smashes through - by the sound of it - several layers of wood -
“Expelliarmus!” Mad Eye snaps, and Harry can barely even think to squeeze before the
wand’s soaring out of his hand. But just that moment the Firebolt whistles towards him, and
Harry throws himself at it as it rockets by, slinging himself astride as it veers, twisting with
his whole body, throwing a hand out against the drag, and he’s slung upside down by the
momentum, fingertips straining, but just as he thinks not going to make it he intercepts the
arc of the wand, fingers closing around the wood, and sends them hurtling into the sky.
“There ye go!” Mad Eye roars as Harry spins wildly, one hand strangling the broom’s neck
and the other clutching his wand. “Now we’re casting! Use what ye’ve got, boy - surprise
me! Surprise yerself!”
Harry finally gets into something like stable flight in time to see Weasleys spilling out into
the yard below him, Hermione - and the Elrics have come running too, from the other side.
“Oy!” Ron yells. “What’s the - Harry!”
“What the fuck,” Elric shouts, not to be outdone. “Are you still trying to off the kid? We told
you, his brains totally ghost free -“
“Alastor Moody what in bloody hell are you DOING!”
Harry flinches; Molly Weasley’s burst out of the house, wand out, red spots in her face
visible even from up here, her hair quite literally on end. “What’s it look like I’m doing? The
boy needs training!” Mad-Eye flicks his wand again; Harry has to roll the broom to avoid the
red jet taking off his ear. “You want to put him in front of Voldie with a rose bouquet and a
smile? We want him to live!”
“Are you MAD!” Mrs. Weasley‘s voice is high and shrill with fury. “The moment
Dumbledore leaves, you draw your wand - “
“He’ll be back,” Mad-Eye says grouchily, slinging another hex at Harry’s face. “I told him,
Potter needs to shape up -“
“Why didn’t you show us this?” Elric breaks in, jabbing a demanding finger up at Harry. “We
told you, we need to know the -“
“He is a CHILD,” Mrs. Weasley bellows, though it’s unclear to who, and not that it matters,
because at that point Buckbeak comes galloping around the side of the cottage, half a goat in
his beak, and Sirius comes yelling and chasing after him.
Things get confusing for a while. Harry tries to take advantage of Mad-Eye’s seeming
distraction to swoop in with another stunner, but Mad-Eye just whirls on his peg leg and fires
off half a dozen hexes at once, making Harry spin like a top, then casts some kind of ward,
putting himself and everyone else on either side of a glittery curve. Hermione looks frantic
but unsure at the edge of it, wand in hand but stuck in place, clearly unable to decide whether
to set Mad-Eye on fire or encourage his professorial enthusiasm; Ron’s torn between
shouting up at Harry and shouting back at the rest of them, but he’s not trying very hard to be
heard compared to the effort put in by Ginny, the Elrics and the twins trying to corner
Buckbeak while Sirius and Mrs. Weasley try to determine whose fault it is.
Harry keeps dodging and taking potshots at Mad-Eye - whatever else, he’s pretty convinced
that this won’t end until he manages to down him - and Mad-Eye certainly keeps firing at
him, especially after hitting Buckbeak with some kind of Confundus that’s keeping him from
taking off into the air, which is just unfair. Mustang and the blonde woman are there too, now,
but just standing at the far end of the field, Mustang watching everybody scream at each other
with the same kind of vacancy Dudley gives the evening news while the blonde woman
alternates between tracking Buckbeak and Harry like she’s wondering which of them will
taste better raw.
It occurs to Harry that neither Lupin nor Bill or Arthur Weasley are here, nor Tonks, not to
mention Bones and Dumbledore, because if they were, they’d definitely have come to see
what the screaming’s about. That’s half the Order gone, after they just had their headquarters
exposed. Then again, Harry thinks, looking down at the business below, if the Death Eaters
did attack, it’s not like anyone would notice.
Despite all this, he feels oddly clearheaded - calm, even, for what feels like the first time in
weeks. Maybe it’s the flying. But all the silence, and the waiting, the being stuck, kept in the
dark - all of that’s over now. Now Voldemort’s making his move, and Harry’s here, and even
if his wand got snapped and his brain or maybe soul got invaded by whatever the hell the
Elrics are, at least he’s being taken seriously. As evidenced by Mad-Eye Moody grunting
“Colufrido!” and firing a burst of orange light, even if it’s because he might or might not be
an impostor again or at least crazy enough that it doesn’t matter. And Harry might not be able
to put up a shield and cast at the same time, but up here he can dodge, in any direction, while
keeping his wand free, and that means he’s got a chance.
And yet he still can’t hit Mad-Eye. Part of it’s the glittering ward Mad-Eye put up, so he’s not
as invested in the rest of the yard’s priorities and is free to shield and countercurse as he
pleases, while Ginny fires a giant net out of her wand and accidentally gets Fred, Sirius’s
stunner misses because he’s trying to dodge the farmer and Buckbeak, squalling, tries to
climb one of the sheds with all his limbs trying to go opposite directions. Harry tries to tell
himself it’s not that different from a heckling crowd, Quidditch stands full of Slytherin songs:
what matters is getting the snitch. Getting Mad-Eye. Not getting hit by -
He has to roll again to avoid a curse, then drop and roll and drop again to dodge three more,
one of which definitely came from the scrum below. There’s a grinding noise, and Harry
glances down to see Mustang in a crouch at the far end of the field with his hands planted on
the ground, still with that totally apathetic expression. A thick semicircle of earth rising is in
front of him, a sort of inverse of Mad-Eye’s shield, just like Elric had done at Grimmauld
Place when they’d begun their demonstration; well, it’s not like they can just whip up a
Protego.
Mad-Eye’s whipped his whole head around, however, suspicious enough to look with more
than just his spinning eye: distracted. Harry wheels the broom into a dive.
Mad-Eye knows more spells, with more counters, and can cast faster than Harry can hope to
match. Speed and air are the only things he’s got that Mad-Eye hasn’t. He’s just got to figure
out how to turn this defense into an attack, because he fully believed Mad-Eye when he said
this wouldn’t stop until he was down or disarmed. Well, there’s more than one way to catch a
Snitch, as his first Quidditch match proved. Harry accelerates -
- just as there’s the crack of Apparition.
Several things happen simultaneously. Lupin and Mr. Weasley appear in the middle of the
field. Mad-Eye whirls again, attention splitting to the new arrival. Mrs. Weasley’s stunner hits
Buckbeak mid-jump, sending him crashing to the ground and skidding for several yards
afterward, which is the only thing that keeps Mad-Eye’s reflexive curse from singeing Mr.
Weasley’s ears off. “Dad!” Ginny yelps. Harry kicks Mad-Eye in the back of the head.
Everything grinds to a halt.
“Er,” Mr. Weasley says to his panting, red-faced wife, as Mad-Eye struggles up from where
he’d landed face-first in Buckbeak’s… hindquarters. “Have we missed something?”
Elric is the first to burst out laughing , but Sirius isn’t far behind, though his is more of a
reflex bark than Elric’s incredulous jeering huaHAAAAHAhahahaaa . Nobody else really
joins them, though Fred and George definitely look like their birthdays have come early and
Hermione has her hands clapped over her mouth.
“The Burrow’s clear,” Mr. Weasley says slowly, still looking back and forth at everybody like
he’s not sure whether he might as well just Apparate back out again. “Dumbledore set the
tripwire spells and went to the Ministry with Amelia… I take it the… hippogriff got loose?”
This is said with some delicacy, as Mad-Eye is getting to his feet, grunting. “Good one, lad,”
he says, with apparent gruff sincerity. “Nicely done.”
“Thanks,” Harry says warily, circling at head height, still steering with his knees to keep his
wand arm free. “Have I won?”
Mad-Eye grins, crooked, his spinning eye whirling up and around to point at Harry. “Ask me
that when the last Death Eater’s on his date with his Kiss, boy. But a good start! Now: let’s
see your Protego.”
“Alastor,” Mrs. Weasley snaps, having gotten her breath back, only to get interrupted by
Elric pushing his way to the front - apparently done laughing. “Why didn’t you show us
that?”
He’s jabbing one black-gloved finger up at Harry. Mad-Eye snorts. “Who else here can fly
like that? I can’t. Any professional Quidditchers in the Death Eaters? Hah!”
“You said lord vodka sauce can fly,” Elric counters, but he’s now eyeing Harry with an
expression of deeply unpromising interest: half scientist watching a bubbling beaker, half
hunt-hound caught onto a scent. It’s the first time he’s looked at Harry as though he had any
more sentience than a decomposing sandwich, and it is not an improvement. “And if you can
fly, then you show us.” His leatherclad finger points at Harry again, his yellow eyes sighted
over it as he turns his hand palm up, beckons. “Show me your protect-os.”
Mrs. Weasley’s nostrils flare, looking about ready to spit sparks. “We are not -“
There’s a strangled, anguished sort of noise from the direction of the cottage. The bearded
farmer is back, and he’s staring in horror at the bloodied mess still caught in Buckbeak’s halfopen snoring maw.
“My goat!”
-oRoy and Riza, by the edge of the earthen bulwarks Roy raised, observe the resulting
dramatics with what they both would quite like to be apathy but is currently parked closer to
comedic despair. Alphonse, who’d slipped off when nobody was looking and is now
currently doing something to the ground at the far end by the sheds - Roy’s going to have to
keep a closer eye on that boy, as it’s apparently his turn as the brother to have fired the
godbothering gun the Elrics keep reloading - glances over briefly at his brother’s raised
voice, but it doesn’t hold his attention. Fullmetal’s far from the loudest of the bunch.
Maes, rejoining Roy and Riza, shakes his head. “We have got to get rid of the civilians.”
Chapter End Notes
Did you think things couldn’t get stupider?
Chapter 85
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
Harry stays on his broom, because the alternative is getting drawn into the somewhat
heightened discussions around Sirius, the farmer, and what’s rapidly turning into every single
Weasley. Hermione seems to have the same idea, glancing back at the shouting before
locking back onto Mad-Eye; she’s made her way around to the opposite edge of the
argument, closest to Harry but away from everyone else and with a clear field of view.
This does, however, put them in the heightened discussions originating from Elric. “Get on,
lad, ye weren’t even serious last time,” Mad-Eye is saying, not dismissive but impatient with
being distracted. “We’ve got no time, and I’ll not have you distracting when Potter’s already
behind as it is -“
“We need to know this,” Elric snaps. “If you’re gonna cock around with some kid -“
“Ye know enough, Dementor boy! You think ye need your hand held? He’s the one Voldy’s
after, and as it’s my time you’re asking, ye’ll heed me when I say he needs it more than you
do!”
Elric narrows his eyes. “Fine,” he says, and claps.
-o-
“Then again, maybe we get ourselves out of here instead,” Maes says, as a jet of light zips
between two of Roy’s bulwarks, earthing itself in a nearby pine and leaving a very small hole
that nevertheless immediately begins sizzling and gushing pink foam. As one they draw back
- to where Alphonse has begun to set up a… kitchen, of sorts.
He’s transmuted a pit in the ground, the mutton carcass hung on a sizable stick staked into the
ground, and he’s now inscribing an array into the cleared earth beside it. Roy recognizes the
symbols for iron; arranged at every cardinal point like that - combined with the reddish dirt -
it’s likely an array for extraction. As they approach, Alphonse finishes the last of the script,
presses a hand to it and lets it flare blue, dark metal first coalescing up in the middle of the
circle and then shaping itself outward, the light dying down moments later on a wide, threelegged cooking plate.
He goes straight into inscribing another array right next to it. It’s rare to see either Elric write
out an array instead of clap, but when they do Roy’s only ever seen them do it backwards -
closing the circle first, then defining it, as though the thought of accidentally activating a
half-scripted array has never kept them up at night. Well, it wouldn’t. “Oh, good,” Alphonse
says as they approach, then nods at his brother’s latest close contact with the wizards. “That
should keep everyone’s attention, but just in case - Cover for me.”
Then he claps, touching the earth not in his prepared array but just beside it.
Roy does not, immediately, identify what exactly it is he’s going to be covering for, but after
a moment a fine tremor starts under his boots - Arget actually lifts a foot, glancing tentatively
around. “I was thinking about how we could implement Ed’s circle,” Alphonse says absently,
eyes on the discharge skipping between his fingers, pressed to the dirt. “The soil here is
relatively rich in metals, and we’ve been able to pull quite a lot from it, with a broadspectrum draw. And for something like this, of course,” he adds, as between his palms a
single patch of dull metal emerges from the earth, perfectly pentagonal, “it doesn’t have to be
pure. Just… stable.”
The transmutation ends. “We’d need the array to be physically instantiated - energy arrays
aren’t much fun otherwise - and establishing an area of effect will be much more helpful than
targeting individual circumstances,” Alphonse continues. “Most importantly, though, we need
it to be difficult to disrupt.” He knocks his knuckles against the metal pentagon. “Activation
access point. The rest is underground.”
He’s built a physical copy of the nullification array out of metal, Roy realizes: like the inlaid
copper rings in the large-scale workrooms in the basements of the National Laboratories,
permanent installations to delineate and contain large-scale experiments. Like the homunculi
had built using tunnels. “How big?”
“Just to the edge of the qi field they set up,” Alphonse says, gesturing at the farm. “About…
ten thousand meters square. Roughly. If we do get ambushed, we’re not getting caught with
our pants down. I want to have my pilaf in peace.”
Roy has to take a moment not to just say the first reflexive few things that come to mind. He
and Edward have reached an equilibrium of sorts, in their new bargain: Edward answers
Roy’s call, Roy provides him with institutional support where necessary. Alphonse, however
- Roy never made the mistake of thinking him dimmer than Edward, or less capable, but it
was still a surprise, that day baiting Scar, to get ordered around so confidently by such a
polite young voice. It took a long while after for Roy to realize this was not a one-off but a
pattern, a side to the nicer Elric he hadn’t often had cause to see: Edward compromises,
makes deals, negotiates. Alphonse doesn’t.
Roy can understand. Equivalent exchange had never quite worked for Alphonse, after all. It
is, however, not exactly pleasant to be subjected to an Alphonse Elric that wants something,
since how he usually gets it is by forcing you in a position where you have no choice but to
fall in with him, if you want any success with your own aims.
There’s also no obvious way to immediately curb this. This is a problem, because all of their
established modus operandi do not stand up to this kind of rapidly devolving situation. Roy
has a lot of experience leading small teams in hostile foreign territory, and whenever
someone went off on their own or decided their own ideas superceded that of the alchemist
who wasn’t even a real Major they tended to die, often messily. It’s why he reined in Edward
with such emphasis, in the house: this is not Amestris, where they have far more resources
and consequently much more room for mistakes. Edward may be a lone operator on a long
leash at home, but here they need to be a unit, not just resemble one. Roy cannot afford to
focus on his own work until the Elrics cough up something too big for just themselves to
handle.
Luckily, Roy has now been to multiple personnel management seminars.
He doesn’t know if it’s simply the result of the brothers’ damage from their mutual
alchemical disaster at such a formative age - Edward with his automail leg and years of lost
alchemy; Alphonse taken whole, but returned whole, too - but the resulting personalities
require very different management, and Alphonse, unlike Edward, has not spent the past
three years in Roy’s office.
Well, if you can’t beat ‘em, use ‘em. “We’ll need multiple activation points,” Roy says,
motioning for the others to circle in. “Relying on one spot just to turn it on won’t serve us
well in an emergency. And this should only be in an emergency, for now,” he emphasizes,
holding Alphonse’s gaze. “This should be the extent of any visible fortifications, as well. No
need to tip our hand, in either direction.”
Riza, who’d been tilting her head slightly to read the written array, says, “We will likely need
an encampment, General. And possibly shelter, if local negotiations continue.”
The farmer and the wizards are still quite loud, yes. “We can make ourselves a cute little
campsite,” Maes says brightly, crouching to flick the iron cooking plate. “All nice and rural.
And prepare to get off grid fast -“ he jerks his head at the treeline, thick pine woods rising
densely up the mountain slope - “if things get soggy. We’re two locations removed from our
egress point, now, both so far accessible only by teleportation,” he reminds them all. “Neither
of which we had much control over. This isn’t likely to change, since none of us seem to be
on the brink of learning to teleport, so we should at least have some kind of Plan B for if we
suddenly don’t have that and the enemies do.”
Yes, it’s time to stop being chased and start doing some chasing; the organized retreat is a
recognized and useful military maneuver, but the clown car doing donuts isn’t. “Albus was
right that we must move quickly ,” Roy agrees. “Our next moves should be primarily
offensive.”
“Yeah, I’ll bet,” Hughes says. “Between us, how likely was it that your circle did affect the
protections on that house?”
Alphonse sighs. “The energy patterns were definitely fluctuating faster, once I examined it,
but it’s not like I knew what I was looking at. I can’t say whether that was triggered by us or
for how long it had been going on or whether it’s significant at all. We don’t know how
magic interacts natively within wizard bodies, or if they were correct about the qi web being
anchored in someone’s soul. It’s possible that the circle did access Hairy’s soul, and the
resulting energy flare was on the same wavelength, so to speak, as the anchoring of the
house’s protections, but if it did, the energy discharge could have just agitated the local
electromagnetic networks without actually disrupting them.” He shrugs. “It could also be that
what I saw was other magical energy being disrupted and not the house protections - if the
relevant magical energy is anchored inside a living soul, then it’s equally possible that it’s
completely inaccessible unless the relevant soul enters the array’s active field. The only thing
we know for sure,” he says, “is that when it comes to energy transmutation, it’s better to be
safe than sorry.”
“Yes,” Roy says, withdrawing his own chalk and, concentrating, begins to write out the null
array from memory in the dirt. “Which brings us to our next objective.”
-oThe ground erupts. Spikes the size of Harry’s leg stab up all over, forcing Mad-Eye to swing
his wand at speed, blasting a circle around himself clear just so he can stand - but the spikes
just keep going, the ground losing all solidity, and Elric is not crouching and touching dirt to
do it: he’s on the move, blue lightning crackling over his whole body as he launches off a
spike with another one of his spears coalescing in one hand.
Their little corner of the field becomes, very quickly, a kind of hyperlocalized disaster area.
The ground opens up under Mad-Eye, coffin-wide, and Mad-Eye has to spit seven long
sentences to send himself rocketing out again; any surface Elric touches mutates and attacks,
and he’s bouncing off anything like some kind of demented bronze pinball. It’s faster, messier
and much louder than what they did in Grimmauld place, and between the crackling
electricity and the spell-lights the air looks like a rave trapped in a snowglobe and shaken
thoroughly upside down.
It’s hard to tell, what with everything moving so rapidly, but Harry’s not sure anyone’s
getting the upper hand here: Elric’s not getting close, but Mad-Eye, constantly defending,
can’t spare attention to fire back at him, either. What that means, however, is that nobody is
firing on Harry, and he takes the opportunity to drop over to Hermione’s side of the field,
bringing himself close enough to turn a slow loop just above her head. “Listen,” he says
under his breath, not quite jerking his head over at Elric. “If they really can turn off magic,
we can’t just sit by. What are we going to do?”
Hermione doesn’t look at him, but Harry knows she heard him. Her expression is one he
tends to see in situations that involve flame wall logic puzzles or cauldrons of polyjuice
potion, and it fills him with a weird rush of confidence and even relief: when Hermione isn’t
scared, she’s thinking, and whatever she tends to think at usually ends up as a metaphorical
smear on the pavement.
“We’re going to help them.”
Harry nearly falls off his broom. “Help them?” A wild arc of blue makes the laces of his
trainers fuzz and Hermione’s hair stand on end, a spray of dirt collapsing between Elric and
Mad-Eye even as it comes gushing out of the ground. “Are you mad?”
“Listen,” Hermione says, not taking her eyes off Elric and Mad-Eye. “They’re here to get rid
of You Know Who. The quicker they do that, the quicker they go back to their own country.
You heard them - the whole time they’ve been here, all they’ve done is complain about how
horrid everything is. They want to leave. And since they can’t apparate or make portkeys,
once they do leave, it’ll be up to us whether they come back.”
“Hermione,” Harry says, absentmindedly dodging as what looks like a red-hot pinecone
whistles past his ear, “you just told us they came up with a way to remove magic, and how if
the Death Eaters get their hands on it -“
“Look,” Hermione says. “There aren’t that many alchemists in wizarding Britain.
Dumbledore’s one of the only ones, in fact. Could you make their circle? Activate it on your
own? I couldn’t. The problem is Bones is a Minister. She can find people who can use it, and
there’s no reason she wouldn’t - she wants to use it on Death Eaters, she said so in the
meeting, and I’m sure -“ Her breath hitches slightly - “many people would prefer making
muggles out of criminals rather than sending them to Azkaban or getting them Kissed. The
problem,” she repeats, “is that once it’s out there, it’s not just going to be used for criminals.
There are more purebloods on the Wizengamot than halfbloods or muggleborns. Three to
one. The only reason the case for muggleborns to be admitted to Hogwarts even won was
because of the danger of accidental magic.” She still doesn’t look at him. “But what if you
could make that go away?”
Harry doesn’t know what to say to that.
“So the faster the Amestrisans leave,” Hermione continues, still staring fixedly ahead, “the
less a chance there is that they can make a permanent version and give it to the Ministry.
Luckily,” she finishes grimly, “I don’t think they want us to have it either.”
“Aren’t they going to use it against Voldemort?” Harry says.
“Yes,” Hermione says. “And right now we don’t have official Ministry support, so they’re
probably going to have to be quiet about it.”
“Yes, quiet’s all they’ve been, so far,” Harry says with some emphasis, as another gout of dirt
sprays the grass in front of them with pebbles and Mad-Eye’s bellowed “Ligate maximus!”
briefly drowns him out. “Elric quietly killing a couple of dementors is why I’ve quietly got
the Ministry after me and my wand very quietly broken. Hermione, he wants to do that to all
our wands, and you’ve heard how he talks to Sirius - he just went and attacked Mad-Eye, if
he just hauls off again -“
“It’s not the worst strategy, in his position,” Hermione says, obscurely. “He’s decided he’s
going to get shown more combat spells, even if it’s by way of having them aimed at his head.
Moody’s an ally - this is as safe as it’s going to get. And neither of them are letting it get out
of hand, look…. no, he doesn’t just haul off,” she says, finally glancing up at Harry. “Besides.
Petrificus put him down. And Ginny’s stunners.”
Harry clenches his jaw, doing another loop as Elric - golden hair flying - somersaults off yet
another block of dirt and hurls his spear into Mad-Eye’s face, blocked last second by a
buzzing orange shield. “Not for long.”
“It doesn’t have to be,” Hermione says simply. “So long as they don’t make their array
permanent.”
-o-
“We’re making the array permanent,” Roy says. “This version, however, only temporarily
generates a field that absorbs any instance of magical energy within its bounds.”
He meets each of their eyes in turn, holding the gaze just long enough to catch them in it;
Roy is not, Riza had come to realize, naturally charismatic, but he has many skills that are
indistinguishable from talent and what he lacks in magnetism he can usually make up for
with intensity. “Our numbers are limited. We have a critical advantage, but everyone must be
capable of using it.” He nods at the circle. “Memorize this. Any one of us must be able to
activate it if the rest of us are dead or otherwise incapacitated. I expect everyone passed
Basics of Alchemy in training, as you are all here today, but Alphonse will explain the array
in detail and assist if anyone has any doubt in their ability to execute.” He sweeps through
them with his gaze again, evaluative. “Any questions?”
Well, she always knew he’d find out sooner or later, and now may be the only time they have
to privately read the team in. Riza steps forward, parade-crisp. “Sir. I will not be able to
activate the array.”
Roy clearly did not expect any issue to come from her. Hughes also gives her a somewhat
baffled double-take, and she knows he’s thinking of that one three-day train ride where he’d
seen her smoke Roy in prime factoring and other silly counting games; she’s no alchemist,
but conceptually, this array is not complex. The theory should not be beyond her.
Roy is beginning to frown - realizing he’s never once seen her perform alchemy, probably,
though the reasons he knew of why were for when she wouldn’t, not couldn’t. “What is
preventing you, Colonel?”
“Medical reasons, sir.”
“Medical,” Roy begins, then completes the uptake. “Very well,” he recovers, remarkably
smooth for a man giving Riza what she privately thinks of as his axe-murderer look. “You
will memorize it and be able to inscribe it for someone else to activate.” He gives Riza one
last we are going to TALK look, then turns to Hughes. “We need to leverage the goblins.”
Hughes pushes up his glasses. “I’m the carrot, you’re the stick?”
Roy taps the edge of the null array with his boot. “I imagine this would be far more an
incentive to any species that owes its physiognomy to energy. Magical or otherwise.”
Hughes sighs. “That’s us, too, Roy. The homunculi were juicing us for decades before we
ever even tried to juice them. Something like this - “ he snaps his fingers, mimicking Roy’s
alchemy. “Is going to be a lot easier to work with, in terms of visible incentive to cooperate,
at least to start. Let’s not jump straight to the scorched earth option, shall we?”
“This,” Roy says - not snapping his own fingers but rather wiggling them; he does have
trigger discipline - “isn’t on the table. Bones will set the terms, and if the financial
institutions don’t comply, we won’t have time or resources to ramp up negotiations. We’ll
have to shut them down. This is how.”
Hughes eyes him a moment longer, but it’s not as though Roy is wrong in his points. They’re
here with a skeleton crew and they all know it. “You think Bones can swing it?”
“She’ll have incentive to. She’s got the throne ahead.”
“And us behind her,” Hughes says laconically. “Incentive indeed. We’ll have to move fast.”
“On every course,” Roy says pointedly. “This site is prepped -“ he nods to Alphonse - “but as
an emergency measure. Take the time now -“ this time at the scrum of wizards - “we’ll be
preparing the ambush grounds tonight. We’re sending Fullmetal out tomorrow. We act on all
fronts then.”
Hughes glances at the dead sheep. “Pilaf it is, then. We’ll have a word with Bones over
dinner.”
“And the bank worker. The rest of you -“ Roy nods around the circle, then down at the array.
“Practice it. You will be tested.”
When Havoc has Sergeant Jones and Corporal Arget sitting attentively before Alphonse -
who seems to be directing them more on cookery prep than on alchemy - Roy pointedly
heads off towards the sheds some way away. Hughes comes with them, amiably attentive in
the way he gets when he is very interested to know something.
Luckily for him, Roy is subtle by necessity, not by nature. “What’s this about medical?” he
demands, the moment they’re just far enough away. “You can’t perform the array? What
happened?”
“I am physiologically incapable, sir.” Roy had been the one to explain to her what the Gate
was, to try and describe it - haltingly, sticking doggedly to facts, walking a careful
circumference around what Edward so baldly barged through: that they had been thrust into
the realms beyond their understanding of science, into contact with something
indistinguishable from the divine. He’ll understand her words now. “I am among those whose
alchemical channel is no longer accessible.”
“No longer accessible?” Roy stands up straighter, spine stiffening. “You…”
“Yes sir,” Riza says peacefully. “I would have updated my medical records, but there is
currently no form in place to appropriately file my condition.”
Roy and Hughes stare at her. Hughes opens his mouth, and then - faster than Roy, as usual -
snaps it shut again, his eyes abruptly focusing over Riza’s shoulder, where Edward’s rough
voice is in full form - and then, as if dragged, his gaze goes further, to Alphonse.
Roy, who employs those smarter than him for a reason, follows Hughes’ gaze, and Riza
watches approximately fifteen different ignition points flicker over his face, from shock and
indignation to offense and fury and even fear before he visibly decides that it’s over, they’re
both clearly alive and not missing any critical limbs or organs, and that throwing a fit over it
here and now will not benefit him in the slightest.
“Alrighty then,” Hughes says in his you two deserve each other voice. “Any other side effects
we should know about?”
“No one’s exhibited any yet,” Riza says. Ed had been perfectly healthy, those years, if not the
most behaviorally balanced, but it’s not as though alchemy’s the deciding factor on that
count. She hasn’t felt much of a change herself, but then again, it’s not as though she’d been
using it.
“Right,” Hughes says. “In that case, I’m off to have two twenty-five-year olds explain to me
what the twenty-year-old did to let me channel forces mankind was not meant to name
through a bunch of evil triangles. Enjoy.”
He nods at Riza, claps Roy on the shoulder - less encouragement and more a kind of mindthe-leash jerk given to muzzled spaniels - and heads back. Roy gives Riza the axe-murderer
look for a few more seconds, then squeezes her bicep, hard. He steps away again. “Do not do
that again.”
“I can hardly get rid of it twice,” Riza says.
“Still. Don’t.” Roy exhales, slow and controlled. “Congratulations,” he says, eyes searching
hers, but carefully now. “Did it help?”
Riza considers this.
It had been risky, certainly. In more ways than one. She knew she would be asking the Elric
brothers to perform human transmutation, which is as dangerous to the executor as to the
subject. But there had been an idea, which became a plan, which became a need.
Riza knows - from the handful of times she’d told Rebecca what she thought were funny
stories - that things probably should have been different for her, growing up. But her father
had loved her. He had been a very intelligent man. When the needle was in her back, he
would talk to her, tell her stories about the nomadic Kayan priestesses who would walk
tattooed head to toe, living libraries of scientific arts, who would train each disciple in
mastery of sword and axe before teaching them any alchemy. As women gave life of their
bodies, so they bore the secrets of alchemy, he would say. And just so was the knowledge they
bore, as sacred as life. They knew that some gifts could only be trusted to the worthy. And you
know, too, yes?
On some level, her father must have agreed with Roy: that even this alchemy of ash could be
used to do some good. Why else would he have spent hours of the needle in Riza’s back,
transcribing his notes line by line, preserving it for someone yet to come?
So Riza had given a gift of her body, to one she thought should have it. Even at fifteen she
could not quite see how it was a gift of life, but her father had loved her. He’d been a very
intelligent man. And while even then she’d been aware that she didn’t know very many
people, she also knew alchemists were rare, alchemists of her father’s caliber rarer. And Roy
had spoken so quietly of a dream so unselfish, so fraught with risk, that she felt a rightness
slot into place in her heart, a future aligning out of the blank fog left by her father’s death.
This, she would give: a tool for Roy’s cause, bigger than himself, and her body, too.
Of course, there was a war on. That kind of naivete didn’t last long.
But she had survived. And some of that naivete had survived, too: that they could change
things, even after the end of a world. That they could make other choices.
And then their own apocalypse came, and she learned there are worse things in the world
than humans. That there are monsters that need killing. That fire is a gift after all: used as it
should be, a weapon against darkness. And when Roy had told her about the Gate, about
what exactly it was Edward had done, what he’d given, that woke again the seed of that idea:
that she did still have a gift of alchemy in her.
A gift of life. A gift whose tears would for once be of joy. And she saw a way to give it.
“Yes,” she says. “It did.”
Roy exhales again, more slowly this time. “Good.”
“Ed Elric now owes me a kidney,” Riza offers.
“That little monster owes me a kidney. Good god,” Roy says emphatically. “You’d think his
brother would stop agreeing to these things.”
Riza considers this too. In the church they’d spent every ninth day in before her mother died,
there had been an entire wall of mosaic dedicated to the Cycle: the Seasons, the Hours - the
Soul, a human body bleaching whiter and whiter as it progressed through the cycle and
became light. Riza doesn’t know now how much of it was a child’s perspective of things, but
to her the artist had succeeded in something specifically in the figure’s face, the ceramic
flecks of its eyes not changing overmuch but somehow taking on new depth all the same - a
shift from apprehension to focus, as if a fog had cleared, all the ordinary considerations of
life set aside for… clarity, of a kind. Sometimes Alphonse Elric’s eyes look like that.
Roy never saw that mural, or set foot into any church or temple that Riza is aware of, so she
doesn’t explain. Instead, she says, “It was my idea.” She doesn't have very many of her own,
she knows. Probably for the best.
“Don’t do that again,” Roy repeats, as they start to head back.
Riza doesn’t smile. “Yes, sir.”
Chapter End Notes
riza: and so at last i made from my curse a cloth of gold. bitch
Chapter 86
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Yo - it keeps happening,” Ed tells Al, grimly, crouching down close. Arget and Jones look
over with interest, Havoc without, but none of them try to lean in. “Same thing, over and over
- the transmutations keep coming apart when they make contact with his shit.” He jerks his
head over at Pirate, at the thoroughly churned field they’d left when they’d split; Ed is going
to figure out what the hell is up with this magic shit, and they’ve got an increasingly
pressured timeframe to do it in. “Not every time - one transmutation works, the next one
dissolves, even if they’re the same exact formula, shape, output, everything.” He hisses a
brief breath through his teeth. “Any ideas?”
Al eyes him, the expression that would be a frown if his face moved more. “Signal
interference?” he says after a moment, and yeah, that was Ed’s first thought too, energy
interferes with other energy all the time - hell, you set a radio antenna up sideways, that
completely changes its waveform profile. It’s not that much of a stretch to imagine there’s all
sorts of pattern mismatching going on here. “But there might not be anything we can do
about it.”
Which was the other half of Ed’s thought: if they have to EM shield the array to work, it kind
of defeats the whole purpose. “And it’s not a great idea to tell them.” He flicks his finger
against his own knee in the direction of the wizards. “Tell Mustang. Not that we’re using it
that way, but if we have to push the null array out barehanded instead of laying down a circle
-“
Al nods. “We’ll test it specifically,” he says. Then he huffs. “And if things go bad enough...
we might get a scale demonstration.” With his eyes he indicates a piece of metal that looks
tamped down into the dirt, between his cooking plate and his makeshift table.
Ed frowns, shuffles closer and puts his hand to it. “Whoa.” This thing maps further than he
can sense, and it’s pretty clear Al made it, which means it’s definitely not further than he can
sense. “You weren’t fucking kidding about the qi, huh.”
“Ya,” Al agrees. “So that’s something, at least. If worst comes to worst - I want to see if the
General would like to practice some qi exercises.”
Because if Mustang can pull on the qi here, and have Al rewrite his arrays alkahestrically, the
thousand dementers potentially to be deployed against them would be much less of a
problem.
But that’s if. “And if he can’t?” Ed hadn’t managed to hack qi, and, okay, it’s not like
Mustang’s a bad alchemist, but an Elric is about as good as it gets, and so far it’s an even
fifty-fifty on results on that end.
Al shrugs. “Then I’ll figure something out.”
Ed eyeballs him, because that wasn’t an I already have something in mind answer, but then
again, Al’s never the one to bet against in a fight. “Okay. Yeah.” Ed claps him on the shoulder
and stands. “You figure this out. I gotta go make sure the kid doesn’t kill himself the second
we step out of here.”
-oThe argument between the goat farmer, the Unplottables and the Order doesn’t precisely get
resolved, but the arrival of Lupin and Mr. Weasley breaks the hectic flow as all sides abruptly
find they have to explain what the hell they were doing to external parties. The fight between
Mad-Eye and Elric abruptly stops, too - the blonde woman who had that cartoonishly
oversized rifle gives a piercing whistle that turns Elric’s head like a dog’s.
He didn’t go over to her, however: apparently that hadn’t been a summons, because he trotted
straight to his brother, ignoring everyone else to whisper with him, and the blonde woman
and Mustang hadn’t even bothered to look at them after that, heading over to Mrs. Weasley
and the rest instead. Everyone seems resolved to pretend the thing with Mad-Eye and
Buckbeak never happened, and Mad-Eye himself doesn’t look particularly more incensed
than usual, but Harry’s going to be keeping an eye out for retaliation even if he did himself
call it training.
The snoring Buckbeak gets levitated away by Sirius - fuming and fumed at by the goat
farmer - only they go inside, and the others follow them, even Mustang and Hughes and the
begunned blonde woman, leaving Chaos and the other two soldiers, the short-haired girl and
the dreadlocked man crouching with Elric and his brother, setting up what looks like a
campfire kitchen.
Harry makes for Hermione, intending to try and get her to tell him and Ron how they’re
going to help the Unplottables exactly, only Mad-Eye turns right around and comes right at
them.
Harry braces himself. “You lot,” Mad-Eye barks, stumping towards them with his wand still
out. “Ye think you’re exempt? The dementors came at all of you, and not a single one of ye
got a Patronus off. Wands out! First position! Ye learn now.”
It’s not what Harry expected: Patronus casting isn’t exactly prime for opportunities to
‘accidentally’ hit him with a jinx, unless Mad-Eye is planning to drag up a dementor from
somewhere, and even that’ll be hard going with Elric still muttering with his brother not
thirty yards away. Harry warily brings the Firebolt down behind Ginny and the twins,
enthusiastically lining up with their wands out; Hermione and Ron are joining them too,
though she looks more darkly determined than excited and Ron’s staring back at where Sirius
and his parents and the others have gone into the farmhouse and muttering under his breath.
Harry’s all for Patronus practice - he did get a Patronus off, he distinctly remembers the spell
taking hold, but his legs had already buckled by then and it faltered into silver mist before it
had begun to canter - but he mainly wants to be near Hermione and Ron, keep from being
singled out by Mad-Eye again. It had been - too much like the cemetery. Dodging spells left
and right, running frantic, scrambling. Harry’s entire core is still shaking, clenching to keep
him balanced on the Firebolt on so many dives and turns, and his wand hand is cramping
with how hard he’s gripped it. It’d be a relief to be around a Patronus for a bit. Fortifying.
Only Elric is suddenly there , right in front of him. “Perfect,” he says, his yellow eyes ticking
over Harry, unpleasantly evaluating. “We’ll do a little practice of our own. Come on, kid.”
Harry doesn’t take a step back. He’s not scared of Elric, but there’s something about him, not
to bloody mention his brother, and Harry realizes whatever the feeling is, it’s gotten much
stronger ever since he stepped into their cursebreaking circle. He wonders if this is something
Ron could feel all along. “Come on what?”
Elric nods at Mad-Eye, who’s busy barking at Ginny about how to position her wand. “He’s
teaching you how to use the stick. What are you gonna do without it?”
“Trying to take our wands again?” Harry says, purely because it’s the first thing to come to
mind. Hermione shoots him a look from where she’s setting up her own stance; they’re here
to help against Voldemort.
Elric rolls his eyes. “If I wanted your stupid sticks I’d have them.” He sighs prodigiously and
puts his gloved hands on his hips. “Look. Kid. I know it might be hard to believe, but I used
to look a lot like you, all twiggy and shit -”
“When you looked like him you could throw a grown man through a wall,” says Chaos, from
where he’s apparently wandered up right behind Harry without anyone noticing, the other
two soldiers still crouched with Alphonse at their fire.
Elric scowls at him. “Shut up, don’t discourage him. Look -”
“Discourage him? I’m saying he doesn’t have to build up like a bulldozer to be able to do the
shit you did.” Chaos gestures, not unsympathetically. “Look at him, he weighs about as much
as your leg. Not even the metal one.”
“Firstly, the metal one weighs as much as the other one, that’s the point, and secondly -”
Elric’s hand flashes out, and he does get Harry’s wand, Harry’s fingers stinging as it’s ripped
out of his grasp. Elric’s grinning at him, as self-satisfied and taunting as Dudley and Piers and
the rest had ever been, taking Harry’s school notebooks, his bag, his shoes. “Well? I took
your stick. Make me regret it.”
Harry kicks him in the bollocks.
Elric blocks Harry’s knee with one palm, so fast and hard it feels like he kicked wood, and
then laughs. “Good one!” Elric says, no trace of sarcasm whatsoever, sounding surprised but
happy about it. “Again!”
Harry grits his teeth, drops his leg, makes like he’s going to kick again and then goes for
Elric’s eyes. Elric catches him by the wrist, laughing again, Harry’s wand now on his other
hand. “You’re good at this!” he says, sounding bloody delighted. “Again!”
Harry tenses, feints as if he’s going to dodge around to get at Elric from the side and with his
other hand outstretched the Firebolt rockets in and smacks solidly into his palm. It’s not
exactly what he was going for - he was hoping the broom would strike Elric in the back - but
it does make Elric jerk aside in surprise, and Harry jabs the handle of the Firebolt into his
stomach.
This also doesn’t exactly make Elric double over like Harry planned, but Elric grunts and
turns sideways, his far hand with the wand away from Harry, his braid whipping over his
shoulder, and Harry grabs it and yanks.
Something hits him in the chest, and Harry finds his feet leaving the ground, his glasses
slipping crazily as everything twists, and Harry smacks his hand to his face to keep them on
as he suddenly finds himself held up - half pinned to Elric’s shoulder. “Okay, now that’s a bad
fuckin’ idea,” Elric says, in lecturing tones. “Don’t try and grapple with somebody bigger and
stronger than you. You play right into their advantages and you’re gonna get absolutely
fucking cheesed. Get distance,” he says, and tosses Harry the way Dudley once threw a stray
cat.
Harry manages to roll like it’s a bad fall off a broom, coming up in a crouch, breathing hard.
Elric’s already walking towards him, unhurried, still talking. “Or get a weapon that’ll make a
difference on the first strike. You should’ve hit me in the face,” he continues, gesturing at the
Firebolt now twitching on the ground. “Or in the throat, if you can swing it. You need to lose
me. You need me to stay down.” He laughs, as if telling himself a clever joke. “You can’t let
me have all your weapons.”
He hooks his toe under the Firebolt and kicks it up into his own grip, but Harry grits his teeth
and thrusts his hand out and the Firebolt shoots to him instead, slapping into his palm already
humming. “Good!” Elric repeats, then whips his hand out holding the wand and Harry
doesn’t even think, throwing himself to the side as someone lets out a cry of alarm, dodging
on pure instinct.
Not so much as a spark came out of the wand. Elric grins, sharp eyeteeth glinting. “Good
reflexes.” He sticks the wand in his hair, just like he’d done with Snape’s, and Harry realizes
a bit belatedly that the alarmed noise came from Hermione; everyone has stopped what
they’re doing and is watching them, even Mad-Eye.
Chaos, at least, is looking vaguely critical. “Shouldn’t you be teaching him to get away?”
Elric snorts. “Where would he go? His allies are all here, and none of them are even trying to
help him.”
A startled ripple goes through them, Ron and Hermione and Ginny, and Fred’s own wand arm
starts to rise as if about to cast - but in two steps Elric’s suddenly there, hauling Harry up
before he can get away, gripping him from behind.
“And now they’re too late,” Elric says calmly, right at his ear. He smells strongly of the earth,
fresh mud and sweat and torn grass, and there's something pricking at Harry’s throat. Elric’s
knives. Harry hadn’t even seen him reach for one. “If they do anything, I do him.”
Ron makes a strangled noise of anger, his wand jerking up to point at Elric anyway. “Ah ah,”
Elric says and jerks Harry a step backwards, moving him easily, displaying just how
concerned by their wands he isn’t - he can do whatever he wants to Harry, and any hex they
aim will have to hit Harry first.
“That’s not -“ Ginny sounds very young, suddenly, but no less strident for it, her wand up
too. “Nobody said anything about that!”
“Were you waiting for permission? ” Elric laughs. “From me?”
Ron looks furious, incredulous, like for all his dark predictions even he didn’t expect Elric to
do this; Ginny’s eyes dart from Chaos to her brothers to Elric and Harry, her wand hand
clenching, and Hermione’s eyes are wide but her mouth is a flat line in her face. Harry’s pulse
pounds in his temples. He could stamp on Elric’s foot, but his ratty trainers might not even
register against his massive steel-capped boots, and he could try and jab with the Firebolt
again but it’s in the hand furthest away from him and he’ll need more room to put any kind of
force behind it.
He doesn’t think Elric will kill him. But Elric has plenty of reason to hurt him, starting with
the fact that he’ll enjoy it, and nobody’s going to stop him. Chaos has his arms folded. MadEye’s got his eye trained on them, but not his wand - just watching.
“What, are you giving up? Just gonna let me have my wicked way with him?” Elric sounds
downright malicious now, reveling, and he shakes Harry slightly by the neck, making Harry’s
breath catch in anticipation, the proximity to the knife like heat on his skin even if he can’t
actually feel it. “Come on,” Elric says, directly to Harry now, his crackly voice right in his
ear, and right, Harry’s about to try stomping his foot anyway. “Nobody’s coming to help you.
Find a way to make me let you go.”
And then Hermione turns, pointing her wand away from them - aiming at Alphonse, doing
something in the dirt at his little campsite across the clearing. A second later, Ginny darts to
her, putting them back to back, a Protego winking to life in front of them both.
Mad-Eye starts to laugh, which Harry briefly mistakes for coughing at first. “ Smart ass,”
Elric says, sounding both approving and annoyed, and the sharpness at Harry’s throat
abruptly disappears as Elric lets him go, stepping away. “You too, red girl. Sounds like
somebody was paying attention to the leverage talk after all. Good!”
Harry jerks further away, out of reach, Firebolt at the ready; Alphonse, who’d glanced up
when Hermione aimed at him, turns his attention back to the dirt as if nothing happened; the
two soldiers with him had jumped up the moment they realized Hermione was aiming at
them, closing together in front of Alphonse, and now they stay standing, halfway between
braced and uncertain. “The rest of you, pair the fuck up. You all need to know how to get
away too.”
“No, they need spellwork,” Mad-Eye says, finally speaking up, sounding so prosaic Harry
almost wonders if they somehow planned this. “Potter’s the one most likely to need to get
free, and they need to be able to fend off dementors long enough for help to arrive. When
they can each cast a Patronus three times consecutive then ye can have them.”
“Fine,” Elric dismisses, though Ron and the twins look disappointed and intent at this, clearly
resolving to produce Patronuses like hotcakes in order to impress upon Elric their greater
height and reach, if not weight. Ginny also looks suspiciously innocent, getting herself into
proper casting position with the air of a dutiful choirgirl opening a book of hymns. Hermione
alone looks like she can’t decide whether to go for Elric or Mad-Eye, though Harry’s pretty
sure she’d be putting up with a knife to her neck purely for the chance to try and get more
information out of the Unplottables. She’d been asking them about alchemy - there’s no way
she won’t be trying to figure out how their circle works.
But Elric turns his hyena eyes back Harry, and Harry grips the Firebolt and braces himself to
jump into the air if necessary: he has no intention of Elric teaching him with a knife to his
neck again. Elric just grins at him, anticipatory, but then Mad-Eye calls, “Potter.”
Harry tries to keep a wary eye on him and Elric both, but Mad-Eye just jerks his head at Elric
and says, “Give him the wand.”
Elric unsticks his hair, miraculously without complaint, tossing it to Harry. Mad-Eye nods at
Harry. “Patronus.”
Harry’s still breathing hard, and he wants nothing more at this moment than to kick Elric in
the bollocks again, this time make sure it really connects, maybe Mad-Eye too for good
measure, and it’s not exactly a happy thought but it is a Gryffindor one and it’s enough to
bolster him into the opening stance of the charm. The wand is unfamiliar and blocky in his
hand, but he thinks determinedly of Sirius gripping his shoulder, saying he won’t be staying
with them anymore, nothing but resolve in his voice and joy in his face when Harry said yes,
and when he rasps “Expecto Patronum!” the stag bursts from his wand like a comet, right at
Elric, coalescing with its pronged head already down, lowered in a charge.
But it doesn’t take Elric on its horns like Harry half expects - it springs a circle around Elric
instead, making him spin in place, his heavy lips briefly curling back as if to bare his teeth
but his eyes wide and almost alarmed. It’s enough to make Harry feel vicious satisfaction, as
his stag wheels and slows in front of him, coming to a stop as it shakes its head and paws the
ground.
But it knows, as Harry knows, that the call it’s answering isn’t life or death. In the silver light
of the stag, it’s clear Mad-Eye is helping them, more than anyone else, even: not even Lupin
urged anyone to practice a Patronus over the past few days after the dementor attack.
And as for Elric - Hermione is right. After all - Dumbledore let Snape in the Order, and Elric
is exactly the same kind of vicious git, just even louder about it. There’s no reason
Dumbledore wouldn’t use them, if he’ll use a former Death Eater - and it’s not like he’d ever
done much to curb Snape’s constant bastardry, either, and the Elrics have at least been more
use than he has already.
They claimed they raised the dead. Harry doesn’t know whether to believe that, but Elric
killed dementors. Harry had felt it when they died: the choking cold unwound from his lungs,
the distant high laughter receding. He doesn’t know whether they’ve even got the full truth
yet about their horrible circle, but if it works as they say he can’t deny he likes the idea of
chasing Voldemort into that howling light and having him turned into the muggles he so
despises. At the very least they know it’ll break his wand.
And thinking of Sirius, casting with the thought - it reminds Harry that the Unplottables are
the ones who want him to stay here, with the wizarding world, stay involved, not cast out to
wait for protection that might never come. Harry on impulse raises a hand to the Patronus,
not quite beckoning, and it turns and nudges him with its luminescent head, friendly, before
dissolving into silver smoke.
“Good,” Mad-Eye says, in hard satisfaction. “Ye’ll practice that too, between your
monkeying. The rest of ye, you know the spell! Cast.”
Chapter End Notes
Harry: is this the part of the shonen arc where i meet the quirky yet competent mentors
who will raise my powers into a force to be reckoned with
Ed & Moody: lol. sure. let’s go with that
Chapter 87
Chapter Notes
See the end of the chapter for notes
“Chaos’s not wrong,” Elric says. “Your first priority should be getting the fuck away. Even if
you just jumping from soup to fire, life’s better without a knife to your neck.”
This he punctuates by taking another swipe at Harry’s face. Harry manages to dodge, but it
somehow doesn’t buy him any room, Elric moving with him as if in lockstep and seizing him
by the wrist. “Now, here’s how you do it,” Elric says, businesslike, and forcibly wraps
Harry’s arms around him.
Harry has an extremely alarming moment of confusion before he realizes Elric is making him
simulate choking him, whereupon he catches up and adds some spirited enthusiasm. “Like
this,” Elric says, sounding amused, and breaks Harry’s grip.
He demonstrates it two more times - slowly enough to be insulting - and then makes Harry do
it, repeat it, over and over and over again. Harry tries a handful of different things at first,
half out of spite, wanting to take Elric by surprise, but Elric just snickers when it doesn’t
work and Harry has to face that yes, with somebody stronger, hitting the tendons and joints is
the only thing that can work. Elric slings off his jacket, thick arms bulging in his dark
shortsleeved turtleneck and bulky black gloves, and Harry learns quick that those gloves hurt
, stinging much more than it should when Elric cuffs him or smacks at his elbows and hands,
correcting some tiny aspect of his stance or grip.
As if that’s not enough, he also lectures about it, in that bloody kindergarten teacher tone he
pulls, as if he doesn’t look like a third year that decided to go down the same injectable gym
route Dudley and his friends have chosen. “Hey, cheer up,” he says, when Harry snarls
inarticulately at him after one such correction. “You’re good at this!”
“Oh, you really think so,” Harry snaps, putting everything he thinks of the concept of Elric’s
approval into the words, but Elric just bloody nods.
“Yeah. You don’t hesitate and you follow through. The hardest thing to teach people is how
to strike and not flinch. When you punch, it’s gotta be through the target, not at it. You can’t
be afraid of getting hit. And when you start - you know that posturing shit people do when
there’s about to be a fight? That will-they-won’t-they back and forth? Yeah, you don’t got
that. And that puts you way the fuck ahead of most people.” He pauses and squints at Harry.
“Where’s your sword?”
“What?”
“Your sword,” Elric repeats. “You killed that giant snake thing with it, right? Where is it?”
Harry stares blankly at him, completely taken aback and realizing he has no idea where the
sword of Godric Gryffindor usually is when it’s not being pulled by second years out of the
Sorting Hat. “At Hogwarts?”
“You keep it at school?” Elric says derisively, then doesn’t wait for an answer, turning to yell,
“Al! Come make the kid a sword!”
“Make your own swords!”
“You balance yours better!”
Alphonse chops in a way that gives a particularly meaty thunk, sinking the cleaver into the
wood block, then wipes his hands on his apron - when did he get an apron? - and comes over,
looking vaguely martyred but in that odd, deliberate way - that layer of falseness to his
expression that Harry can’t stop noticing now that he’s seen it, as if he’s controlling his own
face at one remove. “Don’t you want your barbecue?”
“It’ll take you like five fucking seconds. Here,” Elric says, whapping his hands together and
making Harry jerk back as blue lightning stabs the dirt around them.
“What kind is it?” Alphonse says as a dark, square-edged shape starts to coalesce into Elric’s
waiting hand. “Longsword, short sword…?”
“Er,” Harry says, when he realizes the question is addressed to him. “It was… about this
long…”
And Alphonse makes him a sword. “He’s better with balancing it and stuff,” Elric says to
Harry distractedly as he watches Alphonse run a hand down the dark, rough bar he’d pulled
from the dirt, like this is information he should know. Harry isn’t quite sure how to tell them
that his experience with the sword lasted maybe all of ten minutes. They seem to believe he
carries the thing around with him on the day to day. If they’re stupid enough to give him
something sharp to chop at Elric with, however, Harry’s not going to stop them.
The sword turns out to be surprisingly light, when Alphonse hands it to him - handle first,
even. “Magnesium alloy,” Elric says with satisfaction, watching him heft it. “Since you’ve
got the arms of a nine year old. What?” he adds, at Harry’s glare. “I told you, I used to be
your size.”
Elric still is his size, if they’re going by height, even if he’s as thick as a hippogriff from the
neck down, with the same kind of muscle, alternately slablike and stringy. He even smells
animal, in a way that’s somehow nothing like the odors around Hagrid’s cottage or even like
the permanent fug in the boys’ quidditch locker room.
Harry wishes he could stop doing things like noticing how he smells. “Are we really
expecting me to go at Voldemort with a sword?” he says flatly, hefting the thing. Got an edge,
at least. “If my wand’s gone, I doubt they’ll miss it if I’m carrying something ten times the
size and made of sharp metal.”
“The stickless stuff is for defense,” Elric says unconcernedly. “A sword attacks. If you’re on
defense, all our shit has gone wrong beyond catastrophe and you’re better off running for
your life anyway.”
The Triwizard Cup, cold and slick under his palm, the portkey jerk and Cedric’s stiffened
wrist in his hand. And then Mad-Eye, the wrong one, Crouch, already in Hogwarts. Waiting
for him. Dementors in Little Whinging. There’s too much spit in Harry’s mouth.
“What’s running going to do?” he says, too sharply, his hand tightening on the unfamiliar hilt
of the sword. Cold and slick. “You said it yourself. Everybody who’d shift themselves to help
already has.”
Hermione frowns at him the same way she does when someone very confidently gives the
wrong answer in class, but Harry just glares back at her. “Yeah, I wouldn’t have me leading
the charge against Voldemort with a Firebolt and a couple of Expelliarmuses either,” he tells
her, angrily enough that she bites her lip. “Only he’s after me, and he’s sending dementors,
yeah, so if I’m going to be shipped off to live with muggles so that he can have a clear go at
me, I’m not going to sit and wait for it.”
And he won’t, he decides, then and there. If the Ministry doesn’t pardon Sirius, if
Dumbledore says no and sends him back to the Dursleys - he won’t go, he’ll leave the second
they decide, he won’t wait. He has his Firebolt, and he can find the Knight Bus if he really
has to, and - well. If nothing else, he’ll have a week of wandering around broom shops and
stuffing himself at Fortescue’s before the Death Eaters try to off him, and at least then it’ll be
in public, in full view, and nobody will be able to say Voldemort hasn’t returned.
Sirius would probably come with him, at that. And Dumbledore would have no choice but to
keep him around, or at the very least show up and stick around, if Lucius Malfoy and the
others are all taking potshots at him outside the Leaky Cauldron.
“Exactly,” Elric says, which briefly disorients Harry by sheer virtue of agreeing with a
fundamentally disagreeable person. “And a sword’s what he knows, so a sword’s what he
gets. We don’t got time to start him on a whole other thing, and at least this way it’ll give him
something to apply to any damn broom handle he picks up in the street.”
Harry’s caught between desire to defend his Firebolt and the naggling awareness that what he
‘knows’ of swords is mainly how to accidentally pull them out of magical hats supplied by
helpful phoenixes. Luckily, Ginny interrupts: “Wouldn’t a knife be better?” she says
suddenly, eyeing Elric’s harness.
Elric snorts. “Sure, if he’s done enjoying all ten fingers. Knives are for close work, and need
support - you can’t block for shit, you need something else.” He slaps one of his bracers
demonstratively. “The kid can’t grapple and he weighs less than a bucket of pinecones. He
needs reach, and heft, and something to block with - I’d give him a pike, but that’s even
harder to lug around and completely fucks you if you’re fighting indoors. We’ll be lucky if he
doesn’t take off his own ear as it is.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Fred says, apparently to George. “He did fight a Hungarian Horntail last
year.”
“And he killed the basilisk,” Hermione says, now looking much more thoughtful than
consternated or disapproving. “Both without using spells, really. Much.”
Harry can’t help the flush starting the creep up from under his collar. “I didn’t do it on
purpose.”
“You didn’t kill a giant snake with a sword on purpose?” Elric says skeptically.
“It’s pretty hard to accidentally kill something with a sword,” Alphonse says, equally
dubious. “Swords aren’t like guns. You kind of have to mean it.”
“He did accidentally kill a guy with his hands,” Elric allows.
Alphonse looks at him. “What, really?”
“Yeah, but that was ‘cuz his mom gave him superpowers. He was like, eleven.”
“What kind of superpowers?”
“Fire, I think?”
“What, like -?” Alphonse snaps his fingers.
“No, I think it was just touching people? Kid, what the fuck was up with your fire hands.”
Fred and George and Ginny and even Mad-Eye are all looking at him with interest. Harry
glares back. “Doesn’t matter now, does it? Not like I have it anymore.”
“Point,” Elric concedes, happily enough. “Better get back to the holds then. C’mere, Al, show
him that thing you do with people’s thumbs.”
Alphonse shows them what he does with people’s thumbs. Harry is at least gratified that Elric
is the subject chosen to be demonstrated on, and even more so when it’s turned over to Harry
to take Elric’s rough brown hand - one heavy glove removed - and try his best to break his
fingers off, though that also turns out to be a typically annoying endeavor given it only makes
Elric grin at him, unmoving. “Harder,” he says, advisory. “This one don’t work on me, I got
nerve damage. You can really get good practice in, take advantage.”
“Hey, is that what he did?” Fred or George says suddenly, to George or Fred - they’re not
quite closed in, but definitely edging closer and closer to them, and Mad-Eye seems
interested enough to allow this. “When you took Fred’s wand?”
It’s directed at Alphonse, and Harry doesn’t follow what he’s talking about until he
remembers that the twins had taken Alphonse to Number Four Privet Drive. It feels weeks
ago. “Not quite,” Alphonse tells them, beckoning his brother away from Harry. “Like this.
Watch.”
Elric punches his brother in the face. Or rather tries: Alphonse leans out of the way, and
suddenly Elric’s arm is caught in his, only Elric moves into it with his other fist going for the
gut and Alphonse whirls his cane to get some space only Elric slams it short on one of his
bracers and yanks only this brings Alphonse’s palm driving straightarmed into Elric’s chin
only he’s dropping backwards out from under it -
“I’m trying to have a teaching moment here,” Alphonse says mildly. He doesn't even sound
out of breath - he hasn’t actually moved much, even, mostly pivoting in place, making Elric
dart around him.
“So’m I,” Elric retorts. “People don’t just stand there for you to joint lock them. I’m not
gonna,” and darts in again.
They all watch the ensuing acrobatics. Mad-Eye doesn’t call them back, having stepped aside
to speak with Chaos for a moment, and it kind of seems like the Elrics have forgotten their
audience entirely in favor of a chance to pound on each other. Though that may be just
because Elric can’t seem to go fifteen minutes without trying to kick someone in the face. It’s
like some kind of demonic hybrid between Dudley and Aunt Marge’s pitbull. Harry wonders
if Alphonse ever feels his brother would do better in the pound.
“He wants Hazza to learn all that?” Fred or George says, in a disbelieving tone Harry doesn’t
appreciate. Not that… whatever Elric is doing… would ever be on the menu, not even if
Harry’s Firebolt and wand were both nailed to the wall over Lucius Malfoy’s fireplace. He’d
do better to chuck a rock. “Mate, that’s bloody kung fu.”
Elric signals his return to reality by stopping short mid-wind up to punch, turning to give
them a blank look. “Whaddafuck is kung fu.”
“That,” Fred says, no enthusiasm lost. “Can you do a backflip?”
Elric looks nonplussed. “Who the fuck can’t do a backflip?”
“Yeah, brother, do a backflip,” Alphonse says, which makes Elric flick his braid at him in a
distinctly rude gesture.
“Should I go ahead and backflip too?” Harry says sarcastically, seeing as everyone seems to
have lost sight of the goal here. “Prepare my ultimate weapon against Voldemort?”
George snickers and Chaos laughs, startling Harry - he’s wandered back over to them, MadEye not far behind him - but Fred, interested, asks Elric, “What else can you do?”
“Yeah, boss,” Chaos says, grinning. “What’s the coolest thing you can do?”
“Yeah, brother,” Alphonse says negligently. “Do something cool.”
“You do something cool,” Elric snipes back. “You can do everything I can.”
“And more,” Alphonse says cheerfully, which makes Elric take a threatening step at him
again.
“Oy, back to casting, you,” Mad-Eye grunts, and Elric immediately turns and comes at Harry
again: fast, no time to dodge -
Harry swings the sword up on pure reflex, feels it clack jarringly against Elric’s bracer, and
frantically jerks it back before he can do to it what he did to his brother’s cane. The others
startle out of the way, scattering around them; Elric grins and advances.
Having the sword barely helps. Elric catches him again and again, and those stupid-looking
bracers of his are suddenly an infuriatingly effective obstacle to just chopping his hands off.
Harry would almost think Alphonse somehow alchemized the sword to be useless on
purpose, only he’s managed to nick himself on the edge more than once, so it is sharp, and
then he wonders if it’s possible to curse things with alchemy like with magic. Maybe all it’s
meant to do is be a bloody great chunk of awkwardly sharp metal that grows heavier with
every passing minute and takes a chomp at its own wielder every time he isn’t looking. He’s
positive the sword of Gryffindor did at least some of the work in spearing the basilisk; surely
it’s not out of the question that some piece of scrap pulled out of a farmyard by a couple of
necromancers could carry a bit of a taint.
Harry still doesn’t know whether he actually believes the whole claiming to raise the dead
thing - but, he realizes, Elric had asked him all those questions about Voldemort’s
resurrection. He’d talked about it like a man going down a checklist. Alphonse doesn’t look
like Voldemort - Harry tries to get a better look at him, maneuvering around, which only gets
him dropped to one knee and his nose flicked with Elric’s damn finger for his trouble - but he
sure as hell doesn’t look right either. Harry’s certain of it.
The thing is, he’s not entirely sure how it matters, except for how it’s the same as Voldemort,
and possibly - probably - involved Elric chopping his own leg off and stewing it in a
cauldron. No - wouldn’t it have to be somebody else’s leg? The - willing servant, or
whatever? Harry tries to imagine who’d be Elric’s servant, but has to break off the entire line
of thought when Elric decides he’s not paying enough attention and grabs a fistful of his hair.
It’s a bit hard to think of Elric as some kind of magic-ending Dark Lord, though, when he’s
currently impersonating Dudley age six and a half. Harry hacks at Elric’s good leg to get free,
making him dodge back, grinning approvingly at him. It’s possibly the most infuriating thing
Harry’s seen in his life, rapidly climbing the list to top even Malfoy’s pale, taunting smirk,
and cursed sword or no Harry swings it with complete determination to at least get as much
blood out of Elric as the sword’s getting out of him.
He’s getting better, a little. Elric has to block him more often than he can dodge, at least.
Harry still thinks he’d be better served by a wand, or even just more practice with evasive
flying, if it comes to that, but so far Elric barely lets him get his breath back and doesn’t seem
interested in letting him stop, and at no point did Mad-Eye offer to teach Harry any new
spells, either. They both seem to have decided that dodging spells is the best Harry will be
able to do.
But Mad-Eye is acting like Harry will have to take on Voldemort. So’s Elric. There wouldn’t
be any need for a sword if they just wanted to make sure he could fend off another couple of
dementors or another impostor grabbing his arm to hustle him away into some dark office.
Voldemort had summoned the Death Eaters this very morning. Voldy’s making his move. It’s
why Snape’s gone. Harry doesn’t know how many more people are in the Order, but nobody
was acting like there were scores of other witches and wizards out there who just couldn’t
make it to Grimmauld Place at right that moment - there were just those other two who had
attended the alchemists’ initial demonstration, the witch Emmeline Vance and the tall man
with the earring introduced as Kingsley.
Mrs. Weasley had been adamant about keeping Harry and Hermione and Ron and the rest out
of the Order, but Mad-Eye clearly thinks that’s not happening, one way or another. If it comes
down to it, Mrs. Weasley - and Dumbledore - might not have a choice.
But Dumbledore had disappeared almost as soon as they arrived here, so clearly whatever
he’s doing now, while Voldemort’s convened with the Death Eaters, Dumbledore’s not
planning to involve anyone here.
“Wake up, kid,” Elric says, and Harry realizes he’s been deadlocked and blindly jerking his
arm in Elric’s grip for a solid minute. “Come on, I know you can do better than -“
Harry headbutts him.
It’s a shock to actually have it connect, their skulls thudding together painfully, and even as
Elric staggers back he’s laughing. “I knew I liked you,” Elric says as Harry staggers back
clutching his head, the complete fucking liar. Elric grins at him. “Feel better?”
“I hate you,” Harry grits, meaning every word.
Elric just laughs and claps his shoulder, shaking it the way Sirius does but with none of the
warmth. “You’re doing great. Another couple of hours and you might even land a hit.”
“Give it a rest,” Mad-Eye calls, before Harry can throw all caution to the wind and do his
best to behead Elric. “He’s been casting all day, he’ll be useless without rest and food.”
“Like alchemy,” Elric says, somewhat thoughtfully. “Huh. Well, let’s get on that then.” He
picks up one of Harry’s arms by the wrist and shakes that too before Harry can snatch it
away. “Look at you, you’re thin as sticks. You need to eat. Come on.”
Harry jerks out from under Elric’s arm, but he’s sore enough that it’s more of a wobble. “I
think I can figure out eating on my own, thanks,” he says acidly, regaining his balance.
Elric snorts. “You’d think. Nah, c’mon, Al’s making pilaf. We’ll get you a nice solid rib.”
“What’s bloody wrong with you?” Harry demands, because this is just too much. “First
you’re trying to off us all, now you’ve up and decided to be my mum?”
“Ugh. Worse,” Elric says, inexplicably. “If you get us both killed the second we step out onto
whatever the fuck passes for main street around here I’m never going to hear the end of it.”
“What do you mean, main street?” Harry demands, because that sounds suspiciously like
Elric is planning to take him somewhere. “Where are we going?”
Elric sighs. “Hi, I’m Ed Elric,” he says, sticking his hand out as if to shake. “I’m your new
boyfriend.”
Chapter End Notes
harry:
harry: well now i’m homophobic
Chapter 88
Chapter Notes
little short this time, the transition into the next scene takes more braincell than the % i
have atm
See the end of the chapter for more notes
Al’s clearly taken a look at the size of their recently transported party - give or take a few
wizards - and decided their one lucky sheep isn’t going to be able to truck all of them into the
promised land of flavor. He’s diced the apricots and onions extra fine, the cutting board piled
with what looks like wild chives, the dirt still on the roots, and as Ed approaches, Al fixes
him with a look. “Get me a goat.”
“You trying to get me killed?”
“What do you mean, boy friend?” Hairy says insistently.
“Say the chimera got it,” Al says, in the direct, uncompromising tones of a true chef.
“You better mince it quick then,” Ed advises, scanning the yard briefly for signs of homicidal
wizard. Not that this helps, since Pirate and the wizard kids are still going at it, and Hairy has
trailed after Ed like a particularly bedraggled duck. “Lest Farmer Friendly come out and see
us feasting anything recognizable. No, there’s a dairy and a still, he’s making more than just
for one household, he’s gotta be selling.”
“Will he sell to us, though,” Al says.
“Probably sell to Havoc,” Jones says, from where he’s peeling potatoes. Arget has her head
down, picking through a pile of pinecones in her lap.
“What do you mean, boy friend?” Hairy says, more insistently.
“What, does it mean something else here?” Ed says distractedly, eyeing the rather small sacks
of rice and packets of dried fruit Al had brought from his grocery excursion and finding that
the mental math does not add up to a full plate. “We’re gonna need another two dozen eggs.
At least. Oh,” he adds, catching sight of Hawkeye emerging from the treeline nearby, her
jacket in a bundle slung over her shoulder.
“There’s a village maybe half a mile down the hill,” Hawkeye says, taking the jacket down as
she approaches and spreading it on Al’s makeshift table: more wild garlic, raspberries, a
handful of tiny wild strawberries.
“No mushrooms?” Ed says, surprised, then corrects himself. “Better not risk it.”
“No,” Hawkeye agrees, though with a disappointed air. A nice mushroom risotto would’ve
gone far, but even fungi that looks familiar can kill you faster than you can even realize you
might want to make yourself throw up, and they’re in fuckass weird foreign wizard country
to boot. “We need more supplies.”
Ed looks at her. “Worth trying the farmer first?”
“Let Havoc talk,” Hawkeye orders, but with the inflection that means Ed should be there with
him, so Ed heads off to Hairy’s oi! Supply is the number one concern for any military
movement; whatever the kid’s got stuck in his nose now can wait.
Ed and Havoc find the farmer on the other side of the lot, butchering the remains of the goat
the chimera had killed. He’s got the entrails out, discarded some feet away, already starting to
buzz with flies. He gives them a dirty look when they come up, but he does stop carving,
even if he’s not exactly excited when Havoc asks what he’ll be willing to trade for.
“Take what you like,” he says bitterly. “You’ll be bringing Voldemort and his dogs here by
the dozen any minute now, since the castle up on the hill won’t suit, though I suppose that’s
the point.” He spits expertly, nailing a fly in the dirt. “May as well get some use before it’s all
blown up.”
Havoc and Ed share a glance. They can’t exactly guarantee his farm won’t be blown up, not
with Mustang around, and, okay, Ed and Pirate already kind of tore up that one patch by the
woods, though it’s not like that bit was being used for anything - but this isn’t exactly ideal,
as this here is the mood and demeanor of somebody who’ll sell them out to the wizard
terrorists at first opportunity, looking for leverage to preserve his farm. Shit. Either they put
this guy under guard, with an incomplete understanding of how wizards can communicate
with each other and whether a guard will even stop him from posting some magical bulletin,
or they have to leave, and make sure he doesn’t know where they’ve gone. Possibly even take
him with them.
“Our apologies, sir,” Havoc says, formal. “We cannot speak for the order of the phoenix, and
if you are amenable we still intend to trade for supplies, but we have realized our detachment
has put you under unnecessary and untenable risk. We will decamp and find quarters
elsewhere within the hour.”
“Oh you will, will you?” the farmer says, deeply ironic. Then he glances up at their faces.
“My brother already Fideliused the daylights out of this place,” he says, still belligerent, but
now with an odd note of incredulity entering the tone. “You go elsewhere, you’re sitting
ducks.”
“Beardy’s your brother?” Ed says sharply, as Havoc doesn’t exactly shift in place but radiates
a satisfaction nonetheless: Farmer’s not gonna sell them out. “And yeah, we’ll move,” Ed
adds, watching Farmer. “I’m that construction alchemist Havoc promised you, I can make us
a shelter somewhere in the woods.” And wherever they actually end up going, Al will lay
down another underground array. “We’ll be fine.”
“In the forbidden forest?” Farmer says, now more incredulous than skeptical. “You are
foreigners. And since Albus hasn’t told you anything, as usual -“ Ed and Havoc exchange
another glance - “I’m telling you, camping in that forest is how you get shot by centaurs,
trampled by Thestrals and then eaten by Acromantulas. And if you wander out from the
Fidelius then every Biddy in hogs mead is going to start asking who you are and where in
Merlin you came from, and they’ll come knocking on my door asking it of me, only the
bloody door won’t be there since Albus has just gone ahead and protected us. And that’s
when the fun will really start.” Another fly gets nailed.
Which is as good as an invitation to stay. “Thank you,” Havoc says, frank and genuine.
“Really, is there anything we can do for you? We owe you already, for the information and
the trespass,” he adds, radiating country boy stolidity like a radioactive haystack. “I hope
you’ll permit us to make it right.”
Farmer’s jaw works. “Get the hippo Griff out of here,” he says finally. “I don’t care how.”
Ed glances at Havoc, who’s glancing back at him; yeah, they can find a way to swing that,
sure. “And what do you want for eggs?” Ed says, because take what you want is all well and
good until it turns out he meant no, not that thing. “And milk and cheese, if you’ll sell. Flour
if you have it. We’re feeding more mouths than we expected, since they brought their kids
along.”
It’s a blatant play on partisanship, but Farmer swears under his breath, takes out his stick,
waves it at the butchery - making it all disappear, ugh - and stumps off towards his sheds,
which is as good as an invitation to follow.
Ed trucks along. “You mentioned a castle up the hill?”
Farmer gives a short, sharp laugh. “Hog warts,” he says. “Albus’s fortress. If it goes tits up,”
he says, abruptly. “Run down the hill, into the bar, the hog’s head. There’s a portrait in the
back room. Get at its Arse and you’ll find the way inside.”
Well that sounds like a whole fresh new pot of fuck. Havoc and Ed exchange one last look,
and Havoc nods, very slightly; he’ll stick close and make nice and find out what else Beardy
hasn’t told them. “We’ll get rid of the… hippo-Griff.”
Ed returns to the growing camp kitchen with a sack of flour and settles down to cook. First
they have to get the meat situated: Al’s done the smart thing and carved it up for faster
cooking, placing haunches, ribs and shoulders in their own alchemized ceramic pans, the
joints cleared and set aside for stock; Ed gets that going, roasting them on the round pan with
salt and a little pepper. Most of what Al bought is seasoners and spices, and if this were other
circumstances, Ed would bitch him out for putting quality over quantity, but, well, they did
land in a farm and wrangle extra provisions, so it’s fine, and in any case it’s not like he can
begrudge Al any quest for flavor. It’s serving them to good stead now, in any case: Havoc
hasn’t yet brought over a single dead chicken, but there’s two whole baskets of eggs and
plenty of goat cheese and butter.
At some point, Havoc also sets down a large unlabeled glass jug. Al uncorks it, sniffs it,
sneezes thunderously thrice into his elbow and then pours it all over the pans of lamb. Havoc
may have brought his standard Amestrisan military issue tin mug - currently being used as
Hawkeye’s bowl of pine nuts - but no way they have utensils and dishes for everyone,
primarily because Ed doesn’t fucking feel like making any. To that end, he slops some flour,
goat milk and oil together - no yeast, and he also doesn’t feel like making a full tandoor - and
starts frying flatbreads.
Then they turn on the rice: Ed rinses it, dumps it in the pot and pours the stock over, and Al
picks up the cutting board and scrapes in all the herbs, onion and chopped apricots, tossing in
Arget’s and Hawkeye’s combined efforts at pine nuts and an entire block of butter to boot.
Lastly, dessert. Ordinarily, they wouldn’t much bother, but they’ve got quite a bit of goat milk
left, so Ed and Al share a look over the remaining supplies and set the milk to boiling while
the rest of it all cooks. Sweetmilk’s good with any leftover bread, anyway, and good with
coffee besides, for tomorrow morning.
By this time, the smells have brought the rest of everybody slowly back into orbit. Hughes,
proving his mettle as a man of Intelligence, has commandeered what looks like an actual
cauldron and spent his time filling it with tea. “Bless us, oh Dish Alchemist,” he beseeches
Ed grandly, holding out his cupped hands, so Ed grouses but starts churning out some damn
mugs for everyone who hasn’t brought any.
Which is just about when the rest of the wizards show up.
“Oh,” Breakfast Lady says, her eyes widening as she takes in the spread.
“We’ve been… ensuring all the other order members’ homes are secure…” the ex-werewolf
says, trailing off a bit as he sniffs the air.
“Cool. We cooked,” Ed says, busy subdividing more lambchops. “Everybody’s getting theirs
well done, there ain’t enough latrines for all of us to get mass food poisoning.”
“Oh,” Breakfast Lady says again, inexplicably looking none too happy at this fucking feast
someone else cooked for her. “Well!” she says, in somewhat forcedly cheered tones. “Looks
like there’s no plates about. Let me just see about that,” and with a wave of her stick produces
not just dishes and cutlery but an entire table, complete with tablecloth and place settings.
Ed had sort of assumed they’d all be pulling up various rocks and stumps and farmhouse
stairs, but okay, cool, this works too. Havoc taps him on the shoulder, though: Ed reads his
gesture and the jerk of his head towards the farmhouse and alchemizes a ceramic plate, a
decently nice one, and Havoc takes two ribs, a flatbread, a couple of potato pancakes and a
heaping ladleful of pilaf and carries it all off to find Farmer and pay rent.
Speaking of. “Alright,” Ed says, dusting his hands off, re-gloving and standing up. “Where’s
that fucking chimera?”
Chapter End Notes
mrs weasley: IT FUCKING COOKS TOO?

End Notes
Running list of art for this fic:
ED & AL!!
Ed & Al
Ed and Al and CROOKSHANKS!!!!
Therapy
THE CLAPASS ALCHEMIST
Hazza, Ron & Hermione
ROYALD THEY'RE LESBIANS
Ed & Al & CROOKSHANKS SOME MORE
" rel="nofollow">BLINGED OUT POWER THOT
The snipers death grips amv
PROSTITUTES?
SO WE GOT TWO SOULS -
this entire fic summed up in 3 panels
ARE YOU CONFUSED ABOUT ED'S NICKNAMES? CLICK HERE
Chinese translation of this fic!
there's a discord server for this fic now, god help us
Works inspired by this one
Not With A Whimper But A Bang by NaoNazo
[Podfic] snipers solve 99% of all problems by cabloom, quietnight
Five Times Voldemort Saw His Soulmate (Through Another’s Eyes) by haygahr, NaoNazo
Alchemic Sketches and Illustrations - A Compendium of Doodles by Lilituism
what we do not know we do not know we will not cry from by ang3lba3
We pray for you regularly by tinfigs
having a tattoo on your left arm and wearing leather constitutes to being a Death Eater apparently by
ShiftyBells
Please drop by the Archive and comment to let the creator know if you enjoyed their work!